1 THE GROWING THREAT OF CYBERCRIME Augmentative Essay: The Growing Threat of Cybercrime Danish Siddiqui University of South Florida 2 THE GROWING THREAT OF CYBERCRIME Abstract The introduction of the internet came along with tremendous benefits to users. It is evident, communication and transactions became more efficient with progressive development of internet resources. Individuals using the internet can communicate and exchange information in a short timespan anywhere in the world. Business transactions are more efficient with the internet as compared to the era before the internet. All these benefits are not without challenges. The internet created a space, which is the cyberspace, where new forms of crimes emerged. Cybercrimes, that is, offenses committed within the cyberspace have continuously been a nuisance to most internet users. Individuals, organizations and also security agents have all at one point been victims of cybercrimes. In this respect, the security of internet users is a concern whenever one chooses to use the internet. In the current society there are institutions put in place to protect the public from any form of crime. Ensuring cyber security is also a duty of both the legislature and the police department as perceived, and expected by the public. However, it is evident that the measure put in place to curb with the vice are ineffective and overtaken by the events in the cyberspace. The Growing Threat of Cybercrime The institutions tasked with the maintenance of law and order in the society have been in existence since the beginning of civilization. Such institutions include the police and the lawmaking authorities in different countries. The police department came into play in the eighteenth century to combat the security challenges posed by the then increasing technology and increasing population in the urban areas. Over time, the police department became an all- purpose emergency responder. The society begun to place a lot of confidence in the police 3 THE GROWING THREAT OF CYBERCRIME ability to protect them from all sorts of crimes. The police took the center stage of ensuring public safety in all walks of life. Empowered by the law, the police were able to pursue and clean the society of criminals that threatened the safety of the public. The advent of computers in the society came along with a virtual space where individuals can interact at different capacities. In all human interaction, conflict are set to arise once in a while, and so is the interaction in the cyberspace. Generally, the society expects the same level of protection from the authorities in the cyberspace. Therefore, when it comes to cyber security, the public expects to feel a police presence in the cyberspace ensuring their safety. However, the speed at which the internet technology has grown has rendered the police incapable of maintaining order in the Cyberspace (Mayer, 2016). The police lack both the law and technological empowerment necessary to actively combat cybercrime. It is evident the measures put in place to fight cybercrime are ineffective and generally overtaken by the cybercriminals. When computers came into our homes, it was merely a device meant to make work easier and provide entertainment. Later came advancements where the computer was connected to the world. In a very short time span a lot of advancement in networking and software took place. Initially, nerds who thought it was okay to snoop into peoples computers and view their files were the only trespassers in the cyberspace (Skibell, 2003). Over time, security, business and numerous financial transactions took shape in the cyberspace. It was no longer okay to snoop around in other computer network. Laws had to be put in place to protect internet users. The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA) was enacted to deal with the increasing problem of cybercrime (Mayer, 2016). Over time, every state in America has put laws in place to curb with the vice. However, as stated earlier, the police are not able to catch up with the advancement of 4 THE GROWING THREAT OF CYBERCRIME technology and the laws helping them to do so are obsolete (Skibell, 2003; Mayer, 2016; Tuluc, 2012). The original version of the CFAA was hastily enacted due to increased demand for a law against cybercrimes. The act was misused due to vague and broad nature by which it categorized cybercrimes (Skibell, 2003). The following amendments did not do any justice to the law as the mindset behind the act was to introduce highly punitive measures to curb with the cybercrimes. In this respect, the Act has been criticized for its vagueness and highly punitive measures that are more of disadvantaging internet users, rather than decrease the rate of cybercrime (Mayer, 2016). Interpreting some sections of the Act would spell doom for online conduct to most internet users. The expansive liability of the Act means that all internet users in the US are at the mercy of the prosecutors. A simple wrong personal description of in a dating site could easily land one in jail under the Act (Mayer, 2016). Under such a broad Act, startup businesses would be in trouble for utilizing existing company platforms to set up business as they grow to manage their own platforms in the web. Also, research to improve security in the cyberspace would be almost impossible. Students would be violating the cybercrime law if they were to expose vulnerabilities of any organization network and systems. State security officers would be in trouble for investigating private networks or even public networks for weaknesses (Mayer, 2016). As some regions continue to make cyber laws as punitive as they can, there are some regions with relaxed to no actual cybercrime laws. For instance, the Russian Mafia group has been a nuisance to many financial systems worldwide. Due to jurisdictional limitations and lack of uniformity in cybercrime laws, little can be done to tame the group (Ortner, 2015). Cybercrimes, most major crimes, take place on a global scale. With local laws differing from place to place, it is possible for cybercriminals to find refuge in places where the laws are not so 5 THE GROWING THREAT OF CYBERCRIME hard on them, or inexistent. In the United States, the laws are so punitive that even one would think twice before attempting to access a computer without authorization. Also, hackers may be cautious based on the felony charges attached to cybercrimes. However, the threat does not lie solely within the jurisdiction of the United States. Threats can originate from any corner of the world (Ortner, 2015; Mayer, 2016). According to Tuluc (2012), all the legislative measures in place lack professionalism and knowledge background on how cybercrime has evolved. In his opinion, more needs to be done on the legal system to allow prosecutors catch up with the pace and shape which cybercrime is taking. Technology is very dynamic in our current society. It is evident that yearly new machines and gadgets find their way into the market. Cybercriminal with the help of readily available devices and application accessible online can hurt many systems. Financial institutions are the most targeted by criminals who hack into systems for financial gains (Pearson & Singleton, 2008). Policing on the other hand has proved a difficult task in the cyberspace. The police department admits to failing on the task of catching up with cybercriminals. Among the reasons cited is lack of good infrastructure to keep up with the growing technology. Jurisdictional hindrances also deter the police efforts to bring the perpetrators of cybercrimes to justice. With high speed connections and improved technology devices, the cybercriminals are able to escape the system set up by the police department (Wall, 2007). To catch up with the perpetrators, the police department must be focused more on research and development to keep up to speed with the current trends in the cyberspace. Extreme punitive and broadened cybercrime laws alone will not adequately eliminate the cybercrime threat. On the other hand, the legislature and executive feel the amendments in the cybercrime Act and the prosecutor powers availed are significant in tackling the menace of cybercrime 6 THE GROWING THREAT OF CYBERCRIME (Skibell, 2003). The mindset of the legislature and executive is that the more punitive the consequence of a crime is, the less likely is it for individuals to engage in the crime (Mayer, 2016). The argument is sound on local crimes that involve minor incidents of computer abuse. Employees, especially federal workers, are very careful with the way they handle information across the work networks. No employee would violate even the minor rules of work concerning access to work data and networks. The overall outcome is an improved security from external attacks. The likelihood of hackers gaining access to the internal systems of organizations are minimal if everyone follows the laid down security standards. The increased penalties and sentence period for cybercrimes also keeps everyone on watch not to carelessly expose their organizations to external threats (Skibell, 2003; Tuluc, 2012). Ultimately, there are significant steps in setting up the infrastructure to fight cybercrimes in most parts of the world including the Unites States. Empowering the police with knowledge and equipment to keep pace with the current advancement of technology can improve cyber security. Also, ensuring there is well understood standards of what constitutes a cybercrimes and harmonizing laws against the vice will allow international success in fighting the increasing threat of cybercrime. At the moment, the measures put in place to fight cybercrime are ineffective and generally overtaken by the cybercriminals. 7 THE GROWING THREAT OF CYBERCRIME References Wall, D. S. (2007). Policing Cybercrimes: Situating the Public Police in Networks of Security within Cyberspace. Police Practice & Research, 8(2), 183-205 Pearson, T. A., & Singleton, T. W. (2008). Fraud and Forensic Accounting in the Digital Environment. Issues in Accounting Education, 23(4), 545-559 Skibell, R. (2003). Cybercrimes & Misdemeanors: A Reevaluation of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act. Berkeley Technology Law Journal, 18(3), 909-944 Tuluc, A. M. (2012). Economic processes associated with the cybercrime industry. Economics, Management and Financial Markets, 7(2), 179. Mayer, J. (2016). Cybercrime Litigation. University of Pennsylvania Law Review, 164(6), 1453- 1507 Ortner, D. (2015). Cybercrime and Punishment: The Russian Mafia and Russian Responsibility to Exercise Due Diligence to Prevent Trans-Boundary Cybercrime. Brigham Young University Law Review, 2015(1), 177-217