John Vargas 4/9/17 Carr Violence in the Media and Outrage Culture Have you seen the news recently? School shootings, kidnappings, threats of nuclear war, this has to be one of the most dangerous time periods in human history, right? Actually quite the opposite. Murder rates are at an all-time low, infant mortality is drastically reduced in many countries, and we are living longer than ever before. But you would never know this if you read the newspaper or watched your local news. Crimes now are sensationalized for the purpose of gaining more viewers and having flashy headlines. In this paper I will be explaining how this is the safest time period in human history while also providing counterarguments and examining their point of view. begin with infant mortality rates. Infant mortality rates have been a useful indicator of the health of a countries population for decades. The infant mortality rate is the number of children that die before they reach the age of one, per one thousand. In the United States the infant mortality rate was 5.80 per 1000. For reference, the lowest rate was Monaco with 1.8 per 1000 and the highest was Afghanistan at 112.8 per 1000. This data is from the CIA in the year 2016. The reason this number is significant is because a majority of these deaths occur from poor medical conditions, which means that this is a good indicator for a countries medical care. In modern news many publishers aim for the wow factor and a sort of shock and awe journalism. The goal of this modern journalist to deliver the full story and present the reader with facts; to generate clicks on their websites. For the more views they get the more they make. You will constantly see links to articles online that are along the lines of super drug cures or in small however if you read those articles you will find a flower with no medical test conducted and a student hitting his teacher with a paper airplane. And no matter how outlandish these articles are the companies printing them receive little to no backlash while profiting from this misinformation. You will never turn on CNN or Fox news and see the local Girl Scout raising money for veterans, you will see to groups trying to add their own twist to what the president ate for lunch and how either leading to a nuclear winter or a conspiracy from the opposing party to gain power. This infant mortality statistic is great news as we have been getting healthier and healthier for decades, but you hear about that. You do hear about the new plague that will end life as we know it however. News organizations are using these scare tactics in order to keep viewers and readers caught in a vicious cycle of fear mongering. How can we justify what these news organizations and why are these major outlets able to get away with faulty reporting. Well they actually doing anything wrong, from a business sense at least. There is no regulation on what is reported under free speech regardless of its validity, and nor should there be. The issue of people being deceived should not be blamed on the news outlets, but rather the reader. With several publishers rushing to get the story out first, readers should understand not all the facts may be present and there will be a bias attached to the story. With this knowledge the reader should piece together multiple stories, wait for more information, and then form their opinion. In the recent United States presidential election there was massive uproars around so called the idea that news companies twist stories in order to push an agenda and sway opinion, which in reality has been the case for centuries. Now if a large portion of the country wants a relatively unbiased news source that waits for all the information to be present before writing a final piece, why it exist? Well the answer is they did, and they failed spectacularly over time. In the past you had both weekly and monthly newspapers, which would do a review of everything that happened since the last publication and compile it all into one place. One interesting thing with these styles of publications is how stories that seem world changing in one moment, are completely forgotten in a matter of days. When you have a publication with these kinds of stories you very quickly lose an invested consumer base, which leads to the companies struggling financially, and eventually leads us to the 24/7 outrage news cycle we have today. Now that 24/7 news cycle is something that is fairly new. Prior to the internet and more modern television news was spread in 3 major ways, the first was news on the television. Prior to there being thousands of channels on at all times in the day you had set times in the morning and evening for news shows. These shows would show events for the day and then recap at the end of the day. The second spread of news was newspapers and magazines, many households would have the paper delivered in the morning and read it over breakfast. The topics covered had a wide range and generally went through an editor before publication. And the third was simple word of mouth. The issue with these 24/7 news cycles is the need for constant filler stories and the lack of time for an editor to review the facts before they air. In the past month many news outlets have had constant stories on possible developments in North Korea and the possibility of war being declared. This is a perfect example of a story being over analyzed for the sake of producing headlines. The chances of war breaking out are a near zero percent. North Korea will not declare war because they have no powerful allies since china cut trade ties, and their military is outdated. The United States will not declare war because by the time we were to mobilize, the capital city of Seoul South Korea which lies on the border will be heavily bombed with a death toll that outweighs any benefits. As you can see outrage news has become a very large part of our culture and there is no foreseeable end to it. The companies need this style of shock and awe news in order to stay competitive and there is no regulation on the publication of stories. The best thing the reader can do is research before forming opinions, wait for all the information to become available, and identify the bias of the author.