Vanessa Torres Instructor Carr Enc 1101 1st of May 2017 What is neonatology? I am here to inform everyone as to why neonatology is so important. Not many people even know what that profession is, or why it is so important in our world. Neonatology according to Dictionary.com is the study of the development and disorders of newborn children. Without neonatology who is going to be there to figure out how to help a child who is born with a deficiency? Neonatology involves very advance technology to care for the child; but, some go to explain how the advancements in technology are contributing factors as to why children are born prematurely or with some type of deficiency. Since the the neonatology profession has been coined, and thankfully for technological advancements we are able to coin neonatology even more. Advancements have gone smoothly and rapidly beginning with thermoregulations. Alistair Philp states in his article The Evolution of that it was not until Mr.William Silverman, Mr. Richard Day, and their colleagues at Columbia, New York, in the 1950s that all the assets of modifying body temperature were demonstrated. Hereafter, thermoregulations is when the incubator is kept warmer because it is proven to improve a preterm condition. Providing infants with the right amount of warmth is a necessity along with their nutrition. Formula came about by Scientist Levine and Gordon in the early but because of the high protein fluid retention, azotemia, and metabolic acidosis resulted. It was not until the early when this problem was resolved by the introduction of whey-predominant formulas. The next best advancement was in the mid-1960s when babies were able to have respiratory support. The advancement was pneumatic mattresses that picked up breathing movements of the babies. One of the latest advancements is cardiopulmonary support. Since the mid-20th century, according to Dr. Winsberg ability to detect structural abnormalities with the use of cardiac ultrasound, echocardiography, revolutionized pediatric and neonatal Hereafter, we have these advancements and know of ways to help babies who are in the NICU. The NICU is where professionals with a neonatology degree get to work; they work with the previously mentioned advancements in technology and of course they are trained healthcare professionals.Those in the NICU provide specialized care for these newborns who cannot make it on their own. The NICU uses many technological advancements to guarantee a newborn is cared for in the best way possible. Such advancements include incubators, screening tests, oxygen saturation monitors, and cardiopulmonary monitors. Incubators to keep the babies warm, observable, and their fragile bodies are on a mattress that takes and records the blood pressure systematically. Screening tests were introduced less than 50 years ago and it was used for screening metabolic disease using blood spots on paper. Now the screening test includes testing for congenital hypothyroidism, assessment of biotinidase testing for hemoglobinopathies, and immunoreactive trypsin for cystic Oxygen saturation monitors include the used a light sensor that are to be wrapped around the foot or the hand to detect oxygen levels. Also the NICU uses cardiopulmonary monitors which prototypes were impedance monitors that picked up electrical signals across the chest. At hand, we have the knowledge now of technological advancements in the neonatology profession , and how the technological advancements are incorporated into the NICU. The confusion comes about when studies have shown that technological advancement is a cause to babies being born prematurely, so if we are causing them to be premature, why do we need something to fix something we are causing by decision? Such technological advancement include in vitro fertilization, gene engineering (therapy), c-section, and Induced labor. Gene therapy is constantly failing because of the difficulties of identifying a single genetic defect as the cause of a problem in a premature baby. Induced labor is when stimulating contractions of the uterus or ripening the cervix before the projected delivery date. This could be because the mother experiencing some difficulties that could be painful or life threatening. So the mother gives birth early, giving birth to a premature baby. Cesarean sections are also a problem according to Often, Busterud, Irgens, Haug, and Rasmussen, because they require very organized check ups to see how the babies are, and when the cutting open of the stomach to deliver the baby should occur. If a mother attend her organized check ups, then she is indications for the induction of labour, may cause a paradoxical lower non-spontaneous preterm birth rate in deprived Multiple births resulting from in vitro cause preterm births because the mother had less time to rebuild her stores of vitamins, minerals and amino endows Often, Busterud, Irgens, Haug, and Rasmussen. Hence, we have all these problems because of these advancements. With all the pros and cons taken into consideration there are still numerous accounts of premature babies being born regardless if people have a contributing factor in this matter. The fact of the matter is we have children who are born prematurely and we need people to work in the NICU to be there to be able to assist these babies. The necessity of these neonatal doctors or nurses are vital to life of premature ones, and we need to increase the number of people to work in this profession. We need more professors to teach on neonatology, then more people can work in the NICU, and more people are at hand with the babies to possibly make new discoveries on the babies that are in the NICU. If we have as many hands as we can get in the NICU working to save the babies lives then we are losing the babies because they cannot be assisted hence we are not gaining more knowledge on how to prevent premature births. Preventions honestly come with trial and error. You do what you think will work and you put your whole heart into the effort, if it work it lights a fire in you to try to figure out a new prevention. The more minds, the more ideas. The more ideas, the most possibilities for neonatologist being one step closer to figure out how to prevent premature births in many different ways. References Alistair G.S. Philp. (2005) The Evolution of Department of Pediatrics, Division of Neonatal and Developmental Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, 58, Oftedal, A., Busterud, K., Irgens, L. M., Haug, K., & Rasmussen, S. (2016). Socio-economic risk factors for preterm birth in Norway Journal Of Public 587-592. Winsberg F. (1972) Echocardiography of the fetal and newborn heart. Radiol,