Running head: PRISONERS OF WORLD WAR II How have prisoners of World War II been affected mentally? Mark Sanchez University of South Florida Contact: mark52@mail.usf.edu PRISONERS OF WORLD WAR II Abstract This paper covers four published articles that report on any sort of mentality changes that prisoners of war, or POWs, have to deal with after the war in their normal day-to-day lives. Elbaum et. al (2009) suggests that many POWs must deal with traumatic memories and PTSD, or post-traumatic stress disorder. Cook et. al (2004) suggests that the quality of intimate relationships that former prisoners of World War II have is below average and that because of the PTSD within the POWs. Overtime, the academic conversation about this topic really evolved through time. mostly stayed the same, as articles from 2010 and above say that prisoners of war just suffer from PTSD, the same way that articles from the 2000s did. Keywords: post-traumatic stress disorder, Prisoners of War, World War II PRISONERS OF WORLD WAR II How have prisoners of World War II been affected mentally? A scholarly conversation about any topic or historical figure can or cannot change over a given period of time. My topic for project one is about prisoners of war and how been affected mentally from the war. Most of my sources stated that these POWs just got PTSD, or post-traumatic stress disorder from the war and now lives in the real world have become slightly more difficult, but the conversation really changed over time. My sources from 2000 to 2010 say mostly the same material compared to my sources from 2011 to 2015. To start, one of my sources from 2006 is called and physical aggression in World War II former prisoners of war: Role of posttraumatic stress disorder and The article is basically about intimate partner relationship aggression among former POWs from the Second World War. Cook, J. M., K., Neria, R., Riley, and Thompson also cover the relationship between PTSD and depression within these prisoners of war. A lot of the relationships were reported to have verbal aggression and in some cases even physical aggression, and these forms of aggression are said to have been caused by PTSD symptoms or the severity of captivity trauma for the POWs. Depression was noted to be a moderator between the two forms of aggression and post-traumatic stress disorder. Fast forward to one of my sources from 2014 and you have an article called Railway Men: Prisoner Journeys through the Traumascapes of World War This article is about how prisoners of war are passing down their memories of World War II to their families and friends. The author(unknown) explains how the memories were recycled through narratives, memorials, and life stories. The connection between the article from 2006 and 2014 is that they both explain how prisoners of war have to deal with posttraumatic stress disorder, or PTSD, in their everyday lives and why I believe the scholarly conversation about this topic really changed much. The author who made the article from 2006 explains how POWs deal with PTSD in their relationships, and the authors who made the article from 2014 basically explain how POWs deal with PTSD so much that they have just decided to start telling the people around them. They would tell stories of how they had to do a ton of labor each day just to keep living, or how they got tortured by guards for no reason, or even how they witnessed their friends be killed right in front of them just for being slightly disobedient. In addition to telling their friends and families, they might also start telling their neighbors, co-workers, or any other acquaintances. Furthermore, another one of my sources is from 2004 and called Stress Disorder and Current Relationship Functioning Among World War II Ex-Prisoners of The article is about the quality of intimate relationships that former prisoners of World War II have. The Cook, Coyne, D. S., J. C., J. I., J. M., Riggs, Sheikh, and Thompson also uncover the association between posttraumatic-stress disorder, or PTSD, and the relationships.These former prisoners of World War II were no less likely of being in an intimate relationship compared to non-POWs. Marital functioning was only expected for prisoners without traumatic exposure. Thirty percent of POWs who had Post-traumatic stress disorder reported relationship problems compared to non-POWs without PTSD reporting only eleven percent with relationship problems. Another source of mine from 2009 is called of Traumatic Memories in World War II Prisoners of It from 2010 and above, but it is from five years after my source from 2004. Elbaum, E. N., F. M., Klama, L. S., P. L., Rintamaki., S. A., Weaver and Miskevics uncover the long term effects of POWs who were captured during the Second World War by doing a study with prisoners of war, and basically just describing what the effects of the war has on their well-being. Many of these prisoners of war reported having lots of nightmares and flashbacks of their World War II experiences. Elbaum et. al says memories and clinical levels of PTSD persist for WWII POWs as long as 65 years after their These prisoners of war probably entered the war around their mid 20s, and the war ended when they were in their 30s, so having clinical levels of PTSD for 65 years after their captivity is pretty much until they reach age 95, so basically for most of their lives after the war. Overall, a lot of these POWs just obtained PTSD from the war. The connection between my source from 2004 and 2009 is that they both say that prisoners of World War II have obtained post-traumatic stress disorder from the war. The authors who made the article from 2004 explains how the PTSD that the POWs have gotten from the war has made relationships more difficult for them, and the authors who made the article from 2009 gives information about the PTSD that prisoners of World War II have to deal with such as flashbacks or nightmares. PRISONERS OF WORLD WAR II References C., Cook, J. M., K., Neria, R., Riley,Thompson, Y. (2006). Verbal and physical aggression in World War II former prisoners of war: Role of posttraumatic stress disorder and depression. Journal Of Traumatic Stress, 19(6), 859-866. doi:10.1002/jts.20157 Cook, Coyne, D. S., J. C., J. I., J. M., Riggs, Sheikh, & Thompson (2004). Posttraumatic Stress Disorder and Current Relationship Functioning Among World War II Ex-Prisoners of War. Journal Of Family Psychology, 18(1), 36-45. doi:10.1037/0893-3200.18.1.36 Elbaum, E. N., F. M., Klama, L. S., P. L., Rintamaki., S. A., Weaver & Miskevics, (2009). Persistence of Traumatic Memories in World War II Prisoners of War. Journal Of The American Geriatrics Society, 57(12), 2257-2262. The Railway Men: Prisoner Journeys through the Traumascapes of World War II. (2014). Journal of War & Culture Studies, 7(3), 206-222.