Running Head: RENEWABLE ENERGY AS THE ENERGY SOURCE OF THE FUTURE 1 Renewable Energy As The Energy Source Of The Future: Comparison between Renewable and Fossil Fuels In The Power Generation Sector Gedeon A. Zema University Of South Florida Instructor Carr RENEWABLE ENERGY AS THE ENERGY SOURCE OF THE FUTURE 2 Abstract We can no longer tolerate having our clouds filled with carbon smoke. This process must end. It is time for the world to switch to a cleaner energy. The paper argues in favor of renewable energy sources (RES) in academic conversation between fossil fuels and renewable energy sources. The length of the paper focuses solely on the energy debate within the electricity generation sector. It uses supporting arguments and counter arguments from major contributors such as Thomas Covert, Michael Greenstone, Christopher R. Knittel, Peter Droege, Shahriar Shafiee, Erkan Topal, Luca Chiari, Antonio Zecca, Jan E. Hall and Jenny Holmes on the discourse. I take a side and my views and various arguments are reflected throughout the paper. The paper discusses in length environmental and economic reasons in opting for RES. It begins with an environmental contrast between fossil fuels and RES and the detrimental effect of fuels. Then, it explores economic counter arguments in favor of fossil fuels and how irrelevant they are becoming with growing RES. Furthermore, the sustainability discourse is taken into context to show the suitability of RES for future generation. Finally, it ends with a view of the safety and regulations associated with each energy sources. Keywords: Fossil fuels, Renewable energy sources (RES), Sustainability, oil depletion, carbon capture, oil safety, energy regulations, green jobs. RENEWABLE ENERGY AS THE ENERGY SOURCE OF THE FUTURE 3 Renewable Energy As The Energy Source Of The Future: Comparison between Renewable and Fossil Fuels In The Power Generation Sector Every process has a beginning and an end - this is called the cycle of life. I believe fossil fuels have reached their end. The world can no longer continue to enjoy the limited benefits of fossil fuels and completely ignore the detrimental effects connoted with these sources of energy. Moreover, cleaner substitutes have become more efficient that they could easily supply our energy hungry world whose hunger seems to grow every second. I think, the energy debate should be viewed using jenny perspective where the choice between fossil fuels and renewable sources is a binary one. I am fully aware of how high the stakes of the choice we make. Therefore, inputs from scholars like Thomas Covert, Shahriar Shafiee, Erkan Topal, Luca Chiari, Antonio Zecca, Michael Greenstone, Christopher R. Knittel, Peter Droege and Jan E. Hall must be seriously considered. The purpose of this paper is to thoroughly demonstrate that fossil fuels are a thing of the past and the world shall look forward to our future - which is renewable energy sources. For this paper, I will share my views supported by credible experienced authors on the energy debate. Furthermore, I will offer counterarguments supporting fossil fuels usage and show how limited are those benefits. The scope of the paper is limited to the discourse in the power generation sector. With this in mind, I will focus on the economic and environmental arguments/counter arguments and the importance of technology in the discourse. Environmentally renewable energy sources are more suited to power our energy systems. As much as coal lovers can try to contest this, it is undeniably true that fossil fuels are a major contributor to global warming and the climate change. In her article energy: the road less Holmes (2004) report the same conclusion drawn from numerous RENEWABLE ENERGY AS THE ENERGY SOURCE OF THE FUTURE 4 scientific findings that, than 80% of human-made CO2 emissions are due to the burning of fossil (p. 40). And, it is common knowledge that carbon emission is directly connected to global warming, deforestation and other forms of pollution. In addition to this, fossil fuels mining practices deteriorate acres of lands to a sterile state. As a matter of fact, it is safe to say that fossil fuels are responsible for the global degradation of the planet. On the other hand, RES such as wind and solar energy use natural, clean resources that do not cause any environmental impact to the planet. Coal lovers would argue that carbon capturing techniques can make coal plants still a valid source of power generation. While carbon capturing reduces the carbon emission of plants, it is an extremely expensive and complicated practice that coal-generated power companies are not ready to pursue. Actually, it cost less to switch from a coal plant to a renewable plant than to add the capturing technology to a coal plant. Furthermore, the Global CCS institute, a renowned organization fighting against climate change, denounces those carbon- capturing alterations to coal plants as deeply affecting the overall efficiency of plants. RES hands down win the environmental debate. In terms of cost of energy, fossil fuels are still leading the rest of the pack but perhaps, that is about to change. Fossil fuels are viewed as the viable option in the market. Their immediate availability, accessibility, efficiency and low cost makes them extremely competitive in the market. While this statement could be true a few years ago, and partly acceptable today, in a near future this theory would be cast aside. Resources like petroleum are not as available as it used to be in the 90s. In their article will fossil fuel reserves be Shafiee and Topal (2009) project, with the aid of a formula, that fossil fuels will no longer be part of the commercial market by 2112 (p. 181). While depletion of those resources will affect our ability to generate electricity in the future; presently, it drives up the extraction cost necessary to explore resources RENEWABLE ENERGY AS THE ENERGY SOURCE OF THE FUTURE 5 that were inaccessible previously. Since, as mentioned by Covert et. All (2016) in their article we ever stop using fossil that, technology advances have allowed us to explore fossil reserves that we access in the past and the use of those modern technologies involves unforeseen costs thus increasing the overall cost of electricity (p. 119). Currently, fossil fuels still remain the most preferred sources of energy because of their efficiency. Coal offers a 97% energy efficiency when it is burned While most of the RES barely makes it to the 50% (Droege, 2002, 87). However, RES are growing every day. Sources like wind energy have now quadrupled their overall global power capacity in just 5 years. Additionally, a combination of multiple RES in the energy mix complement each RES individual efficiency. The cost of electricity from fossil fuels systems remain lower than that of RES. Nevertheless, the assessment that generating electricity from coal is way inexpensive compared to electricity generation from wind or solar energy is further from the truth. Because, those costs only involve set-up costs to build a coal plant or a wind farm and ignore all other costs. Let alone, operational future costs which are considerably low in a solar or wind plant. The idea of fossil fuels vanishing in 100 years should be enough to abandon it and with world population growing, we have a sustainability problem as well. The energy debate is just another form of a sustainability discourse. Population growth is probably the last indication that the world cannot rely on depleting fossil fuels to power a rapidly increasing world population. A world population growing as a power function means energy demands skyrocketing. Those demands will not be fulfilled by a depleting resource. Using new oil extraction techniques only cause an increase in energy prices. Moreover, an increase in energy usage results in higher environmental impacts (Chiari & Zecca, 2011, p. 5026). To preserve the ability to provide energy for future generation we need to switch to RES. RENEWABLE ENERGY AS THE ENERGY SOURCE OF THE FUTURE 6 their never-ending and recyclable ability makes them more suitable to fulfill this task. Another aspect of renewable energy that makes them appealing is that they can be installed in the home. Subsequently, it reduces the cost of transporting electricity to our homes. Companies do not have to spend billions of dollars for transmission lines from power plants to the home. Households can install small scale photovoltaic panels that can serve as clean sources of energy in their communities (Holmes, 2004, p. 44). This practice could be beneficial in densely populated developing countries where power companies do not produce enough energy to meet energy demands of the population (Droege, 2002, p. 90). Regulations in the past favored oil companies in different ways because they were responsible for numerous job creation in the world - especially in the US. presently, most of the organizations in the world have opted to go green. Besides, businesses implement ecological and energy saving methods of operating. This means that green companies now create more jobs than oil companies do. It naturally makes sense to opt for a greener energy source that goes in line with business organizations. Hall (2016) in his article Paris Agreement: Destined to Succeed or Doomed to reviews the Paris agreement in which world nations decided to reduce the global temperature by two percent. He infers that while the agreement is not binding on the energy source to be used to meet those temperature standards it implies a switch to RES since they do not impact the weather as much as other energy sources do. That being the case, cutting down on fossil fuels for RES seems logical for all the world countries to be in compliance with the agreement. Fossil fuels are a thing of the past, when energy demands so high. The sentiment shared by many including scholars like Holmes is that they are intrinsically bad for our planet. We often hear on the news headlines like pipeline exploded causing multiple or RENEWABLE ENERGY AS THE ENERGY SOURCE OF THE FUTURE 7 spill in Mexico Fossil fuels are highly flammable chemicals and poisonous. They destroy our marine life and drinking water. They are very finite resources. In short, they are environmentally deficient and economically unsustainable. They oppose the green world we envisioned for ourselves and do not favor job creation. RES must be our future sources of energy. They are recyclable, green, clean and good for the earth. They are environmentally friendly and economically growing. They are safer and create green jobs. While Oil plants are run in remote areas, you can perfectly have solar panels on top of your parking garage without any safety issues. I truly believe It is time to abandon fossil fuel and to embrace renewable energy sources. RENEWABLE ENERGY AS THE ENERGY SOURCE OF THE FUTURE 8 References Chiari, L., & Zecca, A. (2011). Constraints of fossil fuels depletion on global warming projections. Energy Policy, 39(1), 5026-5034. doi:10.1016/j.enpol.2011.06.01 Covert, T., Greenstone, M., & Knittel, C. R. (2016). Will We Ever Stop Using Fossil Journal Of Economic Perspectives, 30(1), 117-138. doi:10.1257/jep.30.1.117 Droege, P. (2002). Renewable Energy and the City: Urban Life in an Age of Fossil Fuel Depletion and Climate Change. Bulletin Of Science, Technology & Society, 22(2), 87-99. Hall, J. E. (2016). Paris agreement on climate change: A diplomatic triumph--how can it succeed?. New Global Studies, (2), 175. doi:10.1515/ngs-2016-0012 Holmes, J. (2004). Renewable energy: the road less traveled. Church & Society, 94(4), 39-47. Shafiee, S., & Topal, E. (2009). When will fossil fuel reserves be diminished?. Energy Policy, (1), 181-189.