Running head: PRISONERS OF WORLD WAR II Prisoners of World War II have to deal with only negative side effects in the present. Mark A. Sanchez University of South Florida Contact: mark52@mail.usf.edu PRISONERS OF WORLD WAR II Abstract The content within this argumentative essay covers the effects that the traumatic event of World War II has caused to former prisoners of war, or POWs. All of the effects are considered to be negative by most people, and most of these effects are caused by the anxiety disorder known as post-traumatic stress disorder, or PTSD. PTSD can develop after exposure to any terrifying event in which grave physical harm occurred or was threatened such as physical assault, warfare, or even sexual assault. I will argue that surviving prisoners of World War II have to deal with only negative side effects in the present, and that they gotten any positive side effects. Although some may argue that the war has changed them into tougher human beings, I believe that it still a positive side effect because it made their lives any easier. Their normal lives of being a civilian only became more difficult once they came back home. Keywords: post-traumatic stress disorder, prisoner of war, side effects PRISONERS OF WORLD WAR II There were many soldiers that took part in World War II. Approximately sixteen million, both men and women served in the United States military during World War II. Nearly 94,000 of these Americans were imprisoned in Europe, and nearly 30,000 were interned by the Japanese. Many of them were captured in Europe after fighting in the Battle of the Bulge, or had been shot down during flying missions over Germany. The conditions for these POWs, or prisoners of war, got increasingly worse as the war went on. Overcrowding and malnutrition was common. Being tortured during interrogations, and for no reason, also occurred for these prisoners of war. As the Germans tried to avoid Allied Forces, many Americans were taken from camps and forced to march for weeks. For the Americans imprisoned by the Japanese, they suffered some of the highest death rates in American history at almost forty percent. Most of them were captured after the fall of the Philippines. Many were crowded onto ships that were sent to Japan. Some of those ships got torpedoed by submarines. Once the POWs made it to Japan, they were forced to work in mines seven days a week with minimal food and water. For all the surviving prisoners of war, I believe that all POWs have to deal with only negative side effects in the present. To start, the main side effect that POWs have to deal with is PTSD, or post-traumatic stress disorder. PTSD is a mental health disorder that can develop after experiencing a traumatic event such as physical assault, sexual assault, and warfare. The unexpected death of a loved one can also cause someone to develop PTSD, and many prisoners of war have seen some of their brothers in arms fall before them at the hands of the enemy. People who have developed PTSD may feel nervous or frightened when not even in danger. Other symptoms include flashbacks, nightmares, and frightening daydreams. Re-experiencing some of these symptoms can definitely cause problems in an everyday routine. Former POWs may not want to go to places such as a museum that would remind them of their past. They may also stay away from events or objects that can bring up memories from the war. Having trouble sleeping is also a symptom and it can lead to the person having stress or anger. In of Traumatic Memories in World War II Prisoners of by Elbaum et. al., the conclusion of the article states memories and clinical levels of PTSD persist for World War II POWs for as long as sixty five years after their This means that all surviving prisoners of war have had to deal with PTSD for more than half their life. Furthermore, Cognition and mood symptoms are also a part of post-traumatic stress disorder. Former POWs may experience negative thoughts about themselves or the world. They may experience distorted feelings such as guilt and blame themselves. They may also lose interest in activities that they once thought were enjoyable in the past, but no longer want to participate in. These moody symptoms can cause the prisoner of war to feel detached from friends and family members, and may even start ruining relationships for them. In and physical aggression in World War II former prisoners of war: Role of posttraumatic stress disorder and by Cook et. al., the author states on the first page or violent behavior in individuals with PTSD is one of the common sources of marital difficulties, as well as frequent reason for seeking psychiatric The PTSD that prisoners of war have developed makes it difficult to have normal functioning relationships with anyone in their lives pretty much. Getting into a romantic relationship can definitely be hard for POWs because romantic relationships are already stressful enough by itself, but now the former prisoners of war would have to deal with the stress of post-traumatic stress disorder, and the relationship. Moreover, post-traumatic stress disorder can cause the people who have it to develop a drinking or drug problem, which should definitely be considered a negative side effect. Not being able to control yourself when it comes to alcohol good, and drugs be taken at all because illegal, and everytime around drugs risking yourself getting caught with them and going to jail, even if never done drugs before. The last thing these former POWs want to do is go back to being a prisoner, but this time it would be within the United States, which is considered to be the worst and toughest place in the world to be a prisoner. Why do these prisoners of war end up developing a drinking or drug problem? because of the stress that PTSD has given them. All the nightmares, flashbacks, and traumatic memories that the Second World War has given them has made them believe that they need something to suppress the stress. However, drugs and alcohol should never be the answer, and although it would be considered okay to drink alcohol every once in awhile just to loosen up (being legal age of course), drinking alcohol consistently each day just to get rid stress good for the human body. Over a long period of time or one single occasion, drinking alcohol can cause damage to the heart. It can cause problems such as cardiomyopathy, which is known as the stretching of heart muscles, and arrhythmias which is having an irregular heartbeat. Other problems due to the heart being damaged by alcohol includes high blood pressure and strokes. Drinking alcohol can also cause a lot of damage to your liver. It can lead to many different problems and liver inflammations such as fibrosis and cirrhosis. Fibrosis is the first stage of when your liver gets scarred from too much alcohol. If your liver becomes scarred, then the tissue perform the jobs of normal liver cells which is called cirrhosis, and this causes someone with cirrhosis to slowly become ill. Other problems that can occur are alcoholic hepatitis and steatosis. Alcoholic hepatitis is basically just liver inflammation that happens from drinking a lot of alcohol for many years, and steatosis is when a lot of fat becomes present in your liver, and also known as the liver When it comes to the negative side effects of drugs, they are just as bad as alcohol, if not worse. not just bad for these former POWs because illegal. Drugs can also cause some serious problems to their health, which would just be adding to the physical and mental damage that World War II has already caused to them. Some physical effects of having a drug addiction include respiratory problems such as lung cancer, heart rate irregularities, or contraction of HIV, along with any other illnesses that are contagious. Seizures, strokes, and brain damage can also occur from having a drug addiction. Some drugs that are really powerful such as cocaine, can cause instant death to some people, and because all surviving prisoners of war are elderly, that means that they have immune systems that are weaker than the average person. In contrast, some people might believe that there are some positive side effects that have occurred for these former prisoners of war. They might believe that the war has transformed them into stronger, tougher human beings, but has it really made their lives any easier? They need to fight anymore, and maintaining a job post-war is difficult for POWs because of all the mental problems that they have to deal with, and now that tougher, they might have anger issues with coworkers or their boss. They might also have relationship problems and not be able to maintain a great marriage because the POW might always start fighting with the person that married too. In essence, I believe that former prisoners of war gotten any positive side effects from World War II. What they did for their country was an amazing accomplishment, and everyone should be very thankful for them, but once they went back to being an average civilian on the streets, the only effects that they have to cope with are negative. To conclude, all surviving POWs have to deal with exclusively negative side effects in the present. Their development of post-traumatic stress disorder after the war has really caused them to have a lot of mental issues such as horrible flashbacks, consistent nightmares, a lot of stress, and a lot of guilt, even though they should never blame themselves for all the bad things that happened during the war. PTSD has made keeping relationships with friends and family difficult because of the mental issues, and all the stress that former prisoners of war have to deal with has even lead some of them to develop a drug or alcohol addiction. Former POWs may also feel detached from the world and feel like not meant to be a normal civilian, because for a long period of time, all they knew was war. I believe that any of them expected to have a smooth transition from the war, but all accomplished an incredible feat, and everyone should be proud for what they did. PRISONERS OF WORLD WAR II References C., Cook, J. M., K., Neria, R., Riley,Thompson, Y. (2006). Verbal and physical aggression in World War II former prisoners of war: Role of posttraumatic stress disorder and depression. Journal Of Traumatic Stress, 19(6), 859-866. doi:10.1002/jts.20157 Cook, Coyne, D. S., J. C., J. I., J. M., Riggs, Sheikh, & Thompson (2004). Posttraumatic Stress Disorder and Current Relationship Functioning Among World War II Ex-Prisoners of War. Journal Of Family Psychology, 18(1), 36-45. doi:10.1037/0893-3200.18.1.36 Elbaum, E. N., F. M., Klama, L. S., P. L., Rintamaki., S. A., Weaver & Miskevics, (2009). Persistence of Traumatic Memories in World War II Prisoners of War. Journal Of The American Geriatrics Society, 57(12), 2257-2262. The Railway Men: Prisoner Journeys through the Traumascapes of World War II. (2014). Journal of War & Culture Studies, 7(3), 206-222. https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/post-traumatic-stress-disorder-ptsd/index.shtml https://www.niaaa.nih.gov/alcohol-health/alcohols-effects-body