Malik Fitts ENC 1101 Nancy Carr 30 April 2017 The harms of Poverty on a Developing Child Effects of Generational Poverty In America, 1 in 5 children are living in poverty. That is 15 million adolescents in America struggling to keep up with their peers developmentally, simply because of their low socioeconomic status. This disadvantage leaves them behind in many areas of their life. A child raised in impoverished conditions faces many setbacks including poor emotional and language development and an increased risk of poor behavior, leaving them with a much higher risk of falling back into the cycle of generational poverty. With these risks in mind, educational systems should be reviewed and given increased funding to provide children of impoverished families further opportunity and guidance in all aspects of their development to intercept any major setbacks poverty has provided their emotional, language and behavioral development. One major developmental set back encountered by children in poverty is their emotional development. In the study Trajectories of Parent-Adolescent Development Outcomes, they uncovered how exactly children in poverty are held back by their emotions. It is very common in low socioeconomic households to have depressed parents. According to Ruby Payne, often times the many life stressors such as all household payments, providing the family groceries, planning transportation, trying to work and take care of their children, and just maintaining a steady income becomes their main focus and issues but a lot of these things are not being managed by the parent. This loss of control and constant state of disparity puts the parents in a state of depression (Payne 45). However, this particular study focused on just how the depressed parent effects their developing child. The study used 110 children, average age of 15, that were at risk for dropping out and tracked them over 18 months 2). Over time of observing, it was reported that children with depressed parents have a poor child-parent relationship. This poor relationship and depression like influence negatively impacts the child by their own depression developing. This increase in depression made the child form poor authoritative relationships and become more likely to fail in school. Since these children already have poor parental support, the development in their own depression leaves them at a greater risk of dropping out and joining the generational poverty line along with their parents 3). Therefore, a child raised in poverty is at greater risk of poor emotional development because of the depression they are exposed to through their parents. Children raised in poverty are also at risk for poor language development. In the book, Bridges out of Poverty, Ruby K. Payne addresses the language discourse among social classes. Dr. Ruby Payne stated that families in poverty value language differently than families of upper classes. Parents in impoverished households, as stated previously, encounter many sacrifices and struggles. Because of these constant stressors, tensions within the household are usually high, with all attention revolved around how they will continue to survive. This extreme focus on making it day to day results in the disvalue of education (Payne, 2001, pg53). Education is not considered a reality to families who are struggling in a low socioeconomic household. This lack of educational value within the parents is later transferred to the child who is not being pushed to value educational discipline. This greatly interrupts their language development. Children in poverty are exposed to 3.75 million less words sounds and phrases than their peers by the time in primary school. This sets them up to be 2 years behind their peers academically before turning 14 (Payne, 2001, pg65). Dr. Ruby Payne states the two manners of discourse that divides classes. Formal language is known as the key to the middle class. She explains it as the language one would see on state exams, or use when speaking to someone of authority. The formal language is key to advancing because it is necessary to use when trying to get a good job or trying to be admitted into college (Payne, 2001, pg71). However, because of the poor exposure provided by impoverished parents to their children, these children fall significantly behind in their language skills just by primary school, typically leaving them in the casual language register. The casual register is usually where poverty stricken families fall. This is explained by Ruby as talking around and around in circles until eventually reaching the point. The incapability to use the formal language sets up adolescents to do poorly on any state exams because they are mainly in formal language. Casual language also becomes frustrating for teachers, employers or any level of authority because of their lack of ability to get to the point in an educated sounding manner. It can also be frustrating for the child in poverty because they lack understanding and cannot properly communicate to authoritative people, leaving them behind in the education and occupation race (Payne, 2001, pg75). Keeping the emotional and language development in mind, it is important to note the behavioral effects of poverty in mind. The study, Early adolescence behavior problems and timing of poverty during childhood: A comparison of life-course models, discusses the effect of poverty on behavior in adolescents. The researchers used life course models, corresponding sensitive periods and an accumulation of risk and social mobility models to unfold and discover behavioral patterns in children raised in poverty. In doing so they group three ages groups, 0-3, 5-7 and 8-12 Behavior 23). As time progressed teachers reported hyperactivity and physical aggression in the students. Researchers found physical aggression problems were starting between the ages 0 and 3 during the sensitive period, while it was prolonged poverty that created the hyperactivity and opposition reported by teachers. Concluding with, early exposure to childhood poverty assumed lots of behavior problems in children early on Behavior 24). Accumulatively, the issues in emotional, language and behavioral development within these children all route from one main cause generational poverty. While sure it is possible to work to end poverty, the chances of completely diminishing it are very slim. However, diminishing the poverty like behavioral patterns is very possible. With added funding to educational systems, schools in high poverty areas can be targeted and provided with extensive after school programs that can intercept these issues early on. As Payne stated many of these issues arise between the ages of 0-3 and continue to get worse through primary school. However, if the government began providing extra funding to these high poverty educational systems, professionals could work longer and more closely with the students at risk to better develop their language, emotions and controlled behavior. In conclusion, a child raised in impoverished conditions faces many setbacks including poor emotional and language development and an increased risk of poor behavior, leaving them with a much higher risk of falling back into the cycle of generational poverty. However, with extra funding and specializing in these areas that lack, the problems can be intercepted and reversed in the children at a very young age before they progress, working to break the poverty pattern. Works Cited Kim, J. (2015, December). Trajectories of Parent-Adolescent Relationship Quality Among At- Risk Youth: Parental Depression and Adolescent Developmental Outcomes. HHS Public Access, 434-440. . Lambert, J. Early adolescence behavior problems and timing of poverty during childhood: A comparison of lifecourse models. . Retrieved from ScienceDirect. Payne, R. K., DeVol, P. E., & Smith, T. D. (2001). Bridges out of poverty: Strategies for professionals and communities.