Boucher Page 1 Moving to Biofuel Humanity has been making use of coal since the discovery of steam power. This, however, cannot last indefinitely. For one, coal is a fossil fuel and in in limited supply on the planet. Additionally, the various chemicals released when burning coal have detrimental effects on people. Therefore, energy corporations must begin to transition to biofuels such as algae. It is common knowledge that coal is a fossil fuel. That means that it takes hundreds of millions of years to form. Once it has all been burned it will take just as long for our supply to replenish. We cannot wait until there is only a grain of coal left to start on alternative ways to produce energy. A mentality of cross that bridge when we get to will result in there being no bridge to cross in the end. It would be best if using coal to produce energy was stopped because of a superior energy source, and not because of there simply being no more coal to burn. Even if coal was renewable, it would not be advised to continue as a prime fuel source. In Frederica article, Multiple Threats to Child Health from Fossil Fuel Combustion: Impacts of Air Pollution and Climate Change, prospective study of almost 2,000 schoolchildren found that children exposed to higher levels of air pollution, including NO2 and PM2.5, had significantly lower lung function growth at 18 years of age, an age when the lungs are nearly mature and lung function deficits are unlikely to be Even the visual of heavy air pollution, such as in cities in China, is undesirable. As American people, we cannot allow that to happen to our great nation. What is expected of companies though, that have coal as their main source of profit. Of course, they are not expected to stop using coal outright and immediately switch to clean energies. That would not only destroy their revenue, but also leave a lot of people without power. The better solution at this moment in time is to introduce algae farming to the existing coal stations. Currently, biofuel derived from algae cannot be made with enough efficiency to warrant its use widespread. It requires more Boucher Page 2 research to be put into by these companies. The paper Macroalgae and microalgae as a potential source for commercial applications along with biofuels production: A biorefinery approach by T. Suganya and others, tells of how farming and then using algae as a biofuel is greatly beneficial. For one, during the algae cultivation it reduces the CO2 levels in the surroundings, thus setting the farms up next to a power plant would be wise. For another, unlike many prospective biofuels this does not us substances that could be utilized for food. Putting this plan into action is fully possible as well, as shown by the fact that the major company Exxon Mobile has started algae farming as told about on their website. Companies must start introducing clean energies, like algae biofuels, now. This way, fossil fuels can be progressively and efficiently edged out. A future where people can breathe easy is within reach. Boucher Page 3 Works sited http://corporate.exxonmobil.com/en/energy/research-and-development/advanced-biofuels/advanced- biofuels-overview#global-websites Suganya, T., Varman, M., Masjuki, H.H., Renganathan, S. Macroalgae and microalgae as a potential source for commercial applications along with biofuels production: A biorefinery approach. Elsevier Ltd, Mach 2016. Web Perera, Frederica. Multiple Threats to Child Health from Fossil Fuel Combustion: Impacts of Air Pollution and Climate Change. Environmental Health Perspectives. Feb2017, Vol. 125 Issue 2, p141-148. Web