Raz Belleci Mrs. Carr ENG 1101 February 5, 2017 A House Without a Silhouette There are so many issues in our world today it is difficult to find a fix for all if any of them. One thing that could be done is to individually do our part by any means necessary. Some people do this by humanitarian relief or by caring for the elderly, for example. Others look to preserve our one and only planet for our children with a focus on the environment. Recycling is always a major conversation and the whole ideas. I found a seemingly new idea that is just starting to gain more and more interest. For my topic, I chose the field of ecology and environmental sciences on a global scale. More specifically a solution to human occupancy and its mark on the planet. Even more specifically the impact that this design could have on the poverty-stricken areas in our world. This solution comes to us by way of the earthship. An earthship is a style of home both by design and function to reduce the carbon footprint of a dwelling to virtually zero. This design was brought to life over thirty years ago in the desert of New Mexico. Today, that are is the largest earthship neighborhood in the world. A major concept is the positive impact on the environment by having no impact on it at all. Also, another major concept is the reusability of the chosen materials required to build one of these houses. Globally this concept has the potential to preserve and improve our planet in simply the materials alone. I intend to answer the questions surrounding the earthships composition and overall purpose. If the earthship design were to be globally adopted what impacts might it have? I think that the earthship design could have a positive impact on the economies of the world where poverty is the dominate living situation. Craig E. (2005). Life in an earthship. Mother Earth News, (209), 84-88. Ellen Craig was an average man exploring different ways to live off the grid. He wrote about his experience building his earthship inspired house. He first explains how he had researched the idea of building his own earthship and the benefits it presents. He outlines the basic concept of what an earthship house is and some of the requirements needed. He was a high school teacher of various subjects like physics, math and electronics. He purchased a 35-acer plot of land in Colorado. This was the location where for the next 16 months would build his new home. He talks about the time spent and the hardships met along the way. Finally, he depicts the unique lifestyle living in an earthship house. He goes into detail on the solar system that he installed and his gradual climb to completion. I think that this is a valuable source for my research paper because it is a first-hand account. Not only is it just informative but it is factual evidence that cannot be argued with. He establishes credibility with the reader by explaining how he stumbled upon this information that he used to build his house. Also, he was not just he was a teacher of relevant subjects to the idea of an design. With a background in math, physics and electronics he had the necessary knowledge to build this kind of domain. Finally, his credibility is backed up by the fact that he built it and lived in it himself. Sevier, L. (2009). Garbage warrior. Ecologist, 39(6), 46-49 Sevier writes a short background of a man named Michael Reynolds who developed the idea of or a profession based on architecture, biology and physics. Sevier delves into the historical look at the beginnings of work. Sevier explores the location of the first earthship in Taos New Mexico. There is one of the first earthship buildings that was erected 30 years ago, and is in perfectly good working condition today. Servier seems to be conducting interview with Reynolds. In the interview passion is very apparent. You get a feel of how much Reynolds has put into and believes in his concept of the earthship. Finally, Sevier does a good job only presenting facts and not debating or imposing her own ideas. article is a good source for my paper as a direct line to the creator of the very idea that I am discussing. Sevier, directly quotes Reynolds about how he came up with the earthship concept. Furthermore, it was written from an outside perspective, even though the article comes from an ecology friendly source The Ecologist. One of the best things that can be derived from writing is that, it goes into the beginnings of the concept initial issues and building materials. I believe that based on this information this will prove to be a strong reference for my paper. Arther, S. (2001). Earthship enterprise. Planning, 67(6), 20. Arther takes more of a brochure roll than anything in this piece. It seems like it is more informational, and he is trying to convince the reader to consider buying one of these houses. There is a discussion within for the development of this new home design in the UK. Arther talks about design and suppliers coming together to erect this new neighborhood. The home design boasts a low carbon footprint based on the materials used alone. However, there is a significant cost to the materials resulting in an expensive home. There is also another interesting fact provided by Arther, where he breaks down the levels of a home. There are five ranging from number one, the least efficient, to number five, the most efficient. I believe that article can assist me in proving my research question in favor of the earthship further. I can use some of the information on other home designs and relating the cost of the two. There is a lot of information for this design and none for the earthship design. I can use this article to show that there are other options available but they are not very diverse in the location like the earthship design is. Regarding the levels of efficiency, they refer to as Code for Sustainable can help me in classifying the earthship based on their scale as a level five home design. Nersesian, R. L. (2010). Energy for the 21st Century : A Comprehensive Guide to Conventional and Alternative Sources. Armonk, N.Y.: Routledge. This book is full of information about environmental conservation. Nersesian discusses the contributing factors behind the need for an alternate energy. Knowing the past is an important part of fortifying the future. He uses quotes from past presidents like Thomas Jefferson and Theodore Roosevelt in chapter nine to shed light on a need to utilize clean energy. Mostly Fortifying the point that this is not a new issue, that it is one that has needed to be solved for quite some time. This is going to be a great source for my research question because of its plethora of information. Not just the quotes from past presidents but from the explanation of energy that we require today. I think that writing can assist me in fortifying my point about an economic solution globally. Fitting the earthship concept will be very easy because it solves a few different issues that the Nersesian brings up. Nersesian mentions independent which are; social progress, economic growth, and environmental improvement. Looking at these at face value I think that this is where the earthship can accomplish solutions to these pillars. In doing this it will strengthen my argument and justification in favor for earthships worldwide to solve environmental issues. Shamsie, Y. (2008). Haiti: Appraising two rounds of peacebuilding using a poverty reduction lens. Civil Wars, 10(4), 413-430. Shamsie writes this short history of how poverty has become a mainstay in Haiti. In Civil Wars even though Haiti has never been in an actual war, the citizens have been battling internal issues instead. Shamise explains that money from donors and development assistance to the Haitian people was cut off, causing lots of political instability. After all the political discourse combined with the social conditions on the decline, Haiti was subject to violence and criminal activity throughout the country. The Haitian president was overthrown in 2004 and forced into exile. This event caused a spark in attention and the need for outside support. Groups like the Multilateral Interim Force and the United Nations Stabilization Mission stepped in to assist the Haitian people rise from poverty stricken conditions. There are many different things, from Shamsie, in this article that I can use to explain my point for this paper. It gives me a good recent history about Haiti and the source of some of the poverty. This is important for my paper because I will be using the earthship as an inexpensive self-sustainable living situation that all the Haitian people could benefit from. If I have a good background of some of the hardships that an area has then there can be more issues that could be solved. I think that this article will bring historical facts that prove the existence of a need in Haiti. Charles, J. (2009). State of emergency: amid storm-ravaged crops and widespread poverty, Haiti is facing a hunger crisis. Essence, (10). 108. Charles wrote this short article bringing up some major issues in Haiti. Haiti had just been hit by devastating storms. One family was used to highlight the horrors that over 80 percent of the population suffered. Most of the population of Haiti are farmers and depend on their crops not only for their wellbeing but their survival. Since the storm wiped out most crops starvation took over in Haiti. There is mention of citizens eating mud cakes and one in eight children do not survive to see the age of five. These factors in consideration, graphically reveal the tragedy that Haiti has had to endure. Haiti and its people are further defined into poverty in this article on a more personal level. piece can really show how many life changing events that one family has experienced. I can use this information in regards to hunger in Haiti to further advocate for the construction of earthships in Haiti. One aspect of the earthship is that it has a greenhouse integrated with the design. There would be enough food produced to sustain a family so that they would not have to eat mud cakes just to fill their stomachs. Also, due to the severe weather their house was destroyed, once again an easy solution with an earthship that is essentially built into the ground.