Gedeon Zema Nancy Carr ENC 1101 - 013 19 February 2017 Fossil fuels vs Renewable energy in modern days (power plants) Back in the days, things were much simpler. We burnt wood and used the sun to stay warm when we were cold. To travel between long distances, we rode on animals or sailed using wind boats. Those were exhaustive activities. We needed to reduce the activities performed by humans. This desire paved the way for the industrial revolution. 1 Industrialization meant human/animal labour had to be replaced by mechanical machines. The majority of industrial machines ran on steam engines. Steam was artificially generated by heating up water with coal. Petroleum byproducts -gas and diesel- were essential for the normal operation of the transport sector. Fossil fuels -which include coal, petroleum and natural gas- were inexpensive, abundant, easily accessible and extremely efficient to use at the time. Fossil commercial use exponentially soared until the late 90s, when the world became aware of its detrimental impacts to the environment. The use of fossil fuels yields carbon dioxide (CO2) which is a greenhouse gas. CO2 is responsible for 80% of the air pollution around the world. In the clouds carbon dioxide destroys the ozone layer preventing the earth from reflecting the heat of the sun back to space. The implications of a vanishing ozone layer is the climate change. Another issue we face today: fossil fuels are scarce. So to avoid the negative effects of carbon dioxide emission and fossil fuels limited availability, alternatives of fossil fuels have emerged referred to as renewable energy sources (RES) -like wind, solar, geothermal , etc. As the name suggest they are recyclable, non-depleting and environmentally friendly. According to Gillis (2017) from the New York Times, Earth reached its highest temperature on record in 2016, trouncing a record set only a year earlier, which beat one set in 2014 (li. 2-4). Fossil-powered plants are major contributors of CO2 in the air. More than 80% of the energy of the world is generated through fossil fuels. If we continue towards this path we might 1 See technology and society chapter 5 on the history of of energy find ourselves in a turmoil of climate disasters. This brings us to ponder and ask ourselves it time to abandon fossil fuels and embrace renewable Keywords: Renewable energy, fossil fuel, Climate change, Ozone Layer, Carbon Dioxide, Green House gases, SMART projects. Steam turbines. REFERENCES Gillis, J. (2017). Earth Sets a Temperature Record for the Third Straight Year. The New York Times, Retrieved from www.nyti.ms/2k1fUZf Morello, J. A. (2008). The History Of Energy. In J. Riley (Ed.), Technology & Society (3rd Ed.), (pp. 31-32) Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY Will We Ever Stop Using Fossil Fuels? Covert, T., Greenstone, M., & Knittel, C. R. (2016). Will We Ever Stop Using Fossil Journal Of Economic Perspectives, 30(1), 117-138. doi:10.1257/jep.30.1.117 The authors mainly focus on forces viewed as influential in the commercial discontinuation of fossil fuels. Those forces are theories related. The authors argue that the future of fossil fuels can be explained by simple market terms: Supply-Demand In the fossil fuels discourse they can be defined as follow: the supply identified as the annual rise in fossil consumption will result in a higher fuel extraction cost making it more expansive than cleaner energy sources (renewable). And demand referred to as the need to switch to carbon- free alternatives of fossil fuels as they become more cost-competitive. It becomes more apparent in the article that statistically the 2 theories do not significantly alter the market numbers of fossil fuels. The authors points out that technology advances over the years have kept extraction costs extremely low and easier to explore new fossil fuels reserves therefore the supply theory stand anymore. While ideally it will be formidable to use renewable alternatives to fossil fuels, it is highly implausible to suggest that it will play a higher role in suppressing the consumption of fossil fuels. The authors come to a conclusion that only aggressive policies and regulations choices can limit the use of fossil fuels. The authors seem knowledgeable on the subject. They offer a realistic approach to the problem of fossil fuels. They want the reader to believe hypothetical common arguments that because of the environmental advantage and depletion of resources we might abandon fossil fuels. They based their paper around economic facts, current datas and graphs to strengthen the point that they really trying to convey to stop hoping negatives arguments will make us stop using fossil fuels. By providing a view on the future of the world, they are suggesting a call to action by the leaders of the world. Furthermore, the authors set up the article to be biased against renewable by failing to discuss in length its environmental benefits and acknowledge its potential The transfer from one source to another is a complex process. When considering to answer my research question one must view economic benefits of fossil fuels as important as its environmental detriment. I will use this source to demonstrate the complexity of my research question and how a whole picture view is necessary in balancing the 2 forms of energy. My viewpoint on the subject has slightly been tested. And it challenges me to think: The rate of extinction of Fossil fuels is not rapidly growing as many suggested. Thus, the reason demanding its immediate substitution is not fully justified. Why not simply invest in carbon capturing methods? Renewable Energy and the City: Urban Life in an Age of Fossil Fuel Depletion and Climate Change Droege, P. (2002). Renewable Energy and the City: Urban Life in an Age of Fossil Fuel Depletion and Climate Change. Bulletin Of Science, Technology & Society, 22(2), 87-99. In this article Droege discusses the dependency of urban cities on fossil fuels as a major cause of depletion of fossil fuels resources and global warming. The author views current practices -like green and appliances recycling- as ineffective towards reducing the emission of greenhouse gases. He suggests that the only remedy for GHG effect is by exploring methods of accounting for GHG emission and implementing RES-enhanced urban communities and infrastructures. He urges states and cities to enforce laws on its citizens that will limit their individual carbon emission to a globally regarded safe level. The author is aware of the misconception on the subject that many communities have and he is concerned about the mechanisms of denials used by communities to avoid dealing with the pressing issue at hand. The article is well researched and organized. It is written to appeal to current and future urban organizations, states and cities. It summarizes the impact of fossil fuels on our big cities and the need on renewable sources. In this article -published in 2002- Droege makes projections on the lifespan of fossil fuels which contradicts with current projections. This finding makes me question the idea of fuels are as we always find ways to get more. I will use the article as a background to relatively show that our current urban setting was traditionally conceived for fossil systems and catering for renewables will require an enormous initial investment which will spark a debate on its feasibility. Paris agreement on climate change: A diplomatic triumph--how can it succeed? Hall, J. E. (2016). Paris agreement on climate change: A diplomatic triumph--how can it succeed?. New Global Studies, (2), 175. doi:10.1515/ngs-2016-0012 Hall optimistically discusses the possibility of the Accord on climate succeeding where its predecessors -like the Kyoto Act- floundered. According to the author, the agreement represent a high point of international cooperation on climate change and serves as a framework in neutralizing GHGs by 2050-2100. The basis of the agreement is to limit the global average temperature of the planet below C -more precisely at C- above pre- industrial levels. Countries voluntarily choose national targets -corresponding to their current carbon emission level- which can be reviewed every 5 years to attain the fixed objectives. And failure to achieve those targets prompt only in facilitative rather than punitive proposed actions. Hall argues that the flexible, non-mandatory and ambitious nature proves to be an essential trait in the push towards its ratification by 195 countries including the US. He concludes by suggesting that the success of the agreement rest solely on countries, individuals and business keeping their promises. Hall is very enthusiastic about the significance of the agreement. He presents a partial view on the agreement, constructed to report mainly on its convenience and overlook its constraints. The agreement on itself does not explicitly restricts the use of fossil fuels but implicitly entails the inclusion of a mix of RES to meet the expected objectives. Hall refers to himself as an observer to dismiss the idea of the author being a stakeholder that personally gains from holding one-sided arguments towards the agreement. The agreement is an example of a SMART project that will define the future of energy production and utilization. I will use this source as a template of future global regulations in the fight to eradicate the commercial use of fossil fuels on an international stage. I will also use it to showcase the divergence in roles by developed and developing countries in integrating RES. I would recommend this article to anyone in the ecology and foreign affairs field of interests. Renewable Energy: A Road Less Travelled Holmes, J. (2004). Renewable energy: the road less traveled. Church & Society, 94(4), 39- 47. From the first paragraph, Holmes states the need to switch from greenhouse sources of energy to renewables energy. The author accuses the U.S federal government of putting policies in place that fails to deal with the economical, political, environmental challenges presented by fossil fuels in she which she expands on. She believes that it is imminent that we make the switch and stop wasting our resources and time on subsidizing fossil fuels. Renewables are much softer on the planet and can be cost-competitive to fossil fuels as technology improves. The author discusses in brief a couples of renewable energy sources (wind, solar, biomass, etc.). She suggests that we -people, businesses, institutions- should strive to become climate-neutral and list steps to take towards using renewable energy sources personally and regionally. She also provides the benefits of renewables. The intent is to educate the christian community on renewable energy. She does not hold strong beliefs in the legislative branch of this country on energy policies. By making constant reference to God in her paper, she is tapping into beliefs system that God would want us to switch to renewable sources. She is unbothered by the monetary costs included but the moral satisfaction one get by doing something one sees as pure, right and just. She provides examples & guidelines on how to switch to self powered communities using renewable sources. It indicates that the author herself or her community are already practicing what she wants the audience to do. This reassures and generates confidence in the mind to explore the idea of switching to renewables where previously there were doubts. This provides an example of the magnitude and different stakeholders participating in the discourse of fossil and renewables energy. A deontological view on the debate that a switch to renewable goes in accord with nature and religion which many people amongst us share as well. I will use this article as an indicator of how world citizens -which are mostly christians view my research question and attempt to weigh on it. I will also use it to comment on how you can implement renewable sources on a personal/community scale and the rewards of doing so. Renewables can the USA lead the pack now? Marsh, G. (2010). Feature article: Renewables can the USA lead the pack now?. Renewable Energy Focus, 1148-52. doi:10.1016/S1755-0084(10)70032-6 Marsh lists the Obama incentives for the USA to shift from being the leading importer of crude oil to one of the leading exporters of renewable sources -which was not shared by its predecessor. He informs on the benefits and huge funds available for businesses and organizations oriented towards cleaner energy production. He clarifies the administration ambitions to compete and collaborate with leading clean-energy producing countries to improve the US renewable energy quota to 25% in the energy mix by 2025. Different acts have been drawn to promote greener energy at national level and rewards renewable initiatives at state level. The author includes extensive data statistics on his paper. This helps Marsh to gain credibility and refute the reader from challenging his theory: under the governance of president Obama, the US is steering away from fossil fuels and heading in full speed towards RES. there is a possibility that the author might share the same political affiliations as president Obama which invites careful scrutiny of his paper. Regardless of the political belonging, he provides substantial data to support his claims. I will definitely make use of this source to show which corner the US is backing on the fossil-renewable discourse. And how my research question is always revisited every time there is a governmental change. Solar Renewable Energy WEATHERHEAD, E. C., & CLACK, C. M. (2017). SOLAR RENEWABLE ENERGY. Bulletin Of The American Meteorological Society, 98(1), 19-22. Elizabeth Weatherhead clarifies that Solar renewable energy is greatly advertised as being a better option than the environmentally unfriendly fossil fuels but they are not easily controllable. She argues that it is a complex process to get solar equipments operating as efficiently as they do. They depend not only on the strength of the beam but also other components (angle of beam, wind, radiation, emplacement). Subsequently each solar panel has its own efficiency. Lastly she affirms that if the process is executed perfectly and done on a plant capacity it can provide up to 80% of the world energy. The author wants to educate the reader on solar energy and show that a process being cleaner necessarily mean it is easier or viable option. She is an experienced meteorologist which provides her credibility on the subject of solar energy. The aim is to provide general knowledge on solar energy. Therefore I would recommend it as a scholarly article for student willing to develop their general knowledge on solar energy. Also, the colloquial tone employed in the text suggest an audience concerned about ecological matters. Weatherhead & Clack explore a form of renewable energy that is considered as the future of energy and identifies how unreliable and costly renewable energy are. I will use this source to expose the reader to one of the popular renewable sources and show how difficult it is to harness energy from renewable sources. Even though they are cleaner options they still presents some hurdles.