Sai Kaung Kham Cett Instructor Carr ENC1101.016 April 9, 2017 Children and video games Research of today has demonstrated that playing computer games can affect the life of kids in a considerable measure of positive ways. Children of early age who are being taught by using computer games can take n more productively and they will be able to enjoy learning at the same time. Despite the fact that there are drawbacks to playing computer games, it has been being seen from a distinct perspective compare to how it was a decade ago. Skills such as decision making and working under pressure are two of the common skills you can learn in most games today. So I believe that educational video games should be encouraged by parents and teaching in the process of teaching the children. The primary motivation behind video games is that, if video games are used to teach children by connecting the video games with lectures can make the children more interested in what they are learning because the nature of video games is to entertain human beings. So instead of teaching on the whiteboard at school for hours straight, a short period of time where children play video games which are academically programed could help the student to both enjoy and learn at the same time. This will let the children relax and keep learning something at the same time. AlShaji, the author of Games Promotes Saudi English Vocabulary Retention conducted a research at a Saudi school where video games were utilized to teach Saudi children English Vocabulary. He stated that children of all ages are living in a highly media influenced environment with access to a variety of digital electronic devices which are accessible both at home and elsewhere including The devices students have to use to get access to video games are all part of this technology so this also made the students get in touch with the tech of today. Since the children of this generation spend most of their leisure time with computers and playing video games, video games developed academically should be encouraged by the parents to their children. On the other hand, Porter, the author of problem video game conducted an anonymous online survey on the negative impacts of video games and concluded that video games can be addicting which can also be lead to having lots of health issues such as not being able to socialize with the world outside and even physical health issues. He also claimed that children addicted to video games can lead to having bad grades or even missing out classes because of playing all night and not being able to wake up for morning classes. However, video games a decade ago may only be a source of entertainment and nothing more, but today, people are playing video games professionally and making a living for themselves by doing so. The amount of money a professional video gamers can earn are not of small amount either. Dota 2, one of the most popular video games host many tournaments each year and the biggest price pool they have gotten for a winning team of five is nine million dollars. These higher tier teams are also sponsored by many assorted brands so even if they are to not win any tournaments, they receive their salary too. Video games is now becoming a sport, an electronic sport just like any other sports. Merchandise of teams and players are sold and a booming business too. So even addiction to video games may not be called an addiction anymore. just like any other sports, players are just committed to being better in the field they are in so that they could get better, win tournaments, make money and enjoy the fandom of theirs. The author of of Violent and Non-violent Computer Video Games on Explicit and Implicit Aggression claimed that the violent video games are making a considerable influence on the children and even the communication between players during online competitive video games had become toxic which can affect the children mentally. Nonetheless, Bavelier claimed that either video games be violent or not, it still has the power to boost your brain. Bavelier is the author of brain boosting power of video Video games can teach your mind different skills from decision making to concentration. Violent video games such as a first person shooting game can help you focus better and make split second decisions even when you are having a dilemma in real life. These shooting games can improve your reaction time, making it faster than people who do not play video games. There are so many variety of video games in the market right now, most of which you can improve different skills of yours. Strategy games which can help you make decisions and to plan. These games may not look as impactful while playing them but this could help a lot during the daily life decision making process. Video games have become a big part of this children as they grow up playing video games but these video games, once seen as a distraction and additive entertainment has grown to something better today. Video games are part of e-sport industry where people can earn millions of dollars in several ways either by programming the game itself, testing games or playing at a competitive level. Video games can also provide the children with many useful skills, either they be violent or non-violent. However, educational games are more recommended for the children. As video games are becoming a big part of the children, it should not frighten the parents that this is a bad factor for the generation.