Running Head: THE INTEGRATION OF TECHNOLOGY IN THE EDUCATION SYSTEM 1 The Integration of Technology in the Education System and the Impact Over Time Roger J. Vassell University of South Florida Author Note Roger J. Vassell, Computer Engineering Student. THE INTEGRATION OF TECHNOLOGY IN THE EDUCATION SYSTEM 2 Abstract This histotrophic essay analyzes the impact of the integration of technology in education over time and whether or not it is beneficial for students. This controversial topic has been debated for the past 2 decades by many scholarly persons. This essay hosts four of those scholars and each of their opinion on the integration of technology in education. The four articles however, do not all have the same opinion on the topic, these opinions have difference based on the time period. About a decade ago, Warnken (2004) believed that the integration of technology would be not only harmful to students because the technology was becoming too advanced and she worried students would spend their time learning to use it rather than learn the course content itself. However, fast forward to the present and Corelli (2015) believes that the integration of technology has a positive effect in boosting cognitive skills and creating new resources that smooth the learning process, thus producing more competent and proficient students. Keywords: technology, education, integration, students THE INTEGRATION OF TECHNOLOGY IN THE EDUCATION SYSTEM 3 The Integration of Technology in the Education System and The Impact Over Time It is no secret technology has been advancing and integrating itself into almost every component of our lives. Technology has had a big impact on the education system as well. New technological devices have become smaller, lighter and astonishingly fast. With these devices being so portable students can have access to massive amounts of information at their fingertips at anytime and anywhere. This inevitably shifts the way students perceive and navigate through school. Within the past two decades, there has been controversy on whether or not the influence of technology in education system is beneficial to students. In the article vs. Anonymous Feedback: Teacher Behavior in Higher Education, with Focus on Technology Angelo Corelli (2015) believes that the impact of technology is a positive one, he states positive effects of technology is two-fold and impact on both learning in specific content areas, as well as on the learning how to use technology (p.54). Students are now able to get information instantly and conveniently, this changes the way students perceive school and learn new information. The traditional education system is being challenged because technology allows for different methods of teaching. Universities have adopted the idea of where students can attend class and learn from anywhere. In the article Digital Technologies, Blended Learning and MOOCS will Impact the Future of Higher Neil Morris (2016) states, flipped classroom overturns the traditional sequence of events and requires students to engage in conceptual understanding of key facts and in formation using online resources and tools prior to interacting with educators and learning (p. 402). Students can watch the lecture and come to class with engaging questions they had while watching the lectures online. They can narrow their misunderstanding to one THE INTEGRATION OF TECHNOLOGY IN THE EDUCATION SYSTEM 4 concept and be more specific when asking the professor for answers. This promotes critical thinking on the part and allows professors to be more engaging during class time. However, this perception on technology in education always been so. In 2004, when technology was starting to advance at a tremendous rate, school officials became cautious of the impact it would have on education. In the article Impact of Technology on Information Literacy Education in Paula Warnken (2004) believes that, technology is now quickly and certainly there, but it seems the skills necessary to use it most effectively- and more important- critically are (p.152). Warnken worked as a librarian and she made the observation that since technology is advancing quickly, the school system have the skills or tools necessary to stay up to date. Through her librarian experience, she has helped many students in the research process and how to do it correctly. Students now have so much information and it is so easily accessible that the process of doing proper research has been tainted and will not be beneficial to students. This the only concern raised about the integration of technology in education. An experimental study, Experimental Study of the Inclusion of Technology in Higher was conducted by Hernando Bustos and Miguel Nussbau in 2007. In the experiment, they granted a few professors Portable Pocket for the students to use and do an assignment on. However, after the experiment Bustos and Nussbau concluded that initiation of a technology inclusion process requires that professors devote additional hours to activities such as learning the process, preparing materials, (p.104). The professors had a hard time with the new technology because they know how to use it themselves. The consequence of integrating technology in schools is that older professors who have the luxury of growing up around technology might have a hard time adjusting. However, this problem can be easily overcome with time. With younger professors coming into THE INTEGRATION OF TECHNOLOGY IN THE EDUCATION SYSTEM 5 the work force and older professors retiring, it is safe to assume that within no time the professors that will be teaching will have a manageable time adjusting to the new technology. The view on technology in education has definitely changed over the past two decades. I believe that this shift in thinking has been a positive one. Currently, the view stands that technology in education is beneficial for students and can help the learning process. Research done by scholars like Angelo Corelli, really supports the claim that the integration of technology is beneficial to students. He has given a futuristic perspective on how the long term effect of technology in education will continue to benefit students. Another scholar, Neil Morris, has brought to the table the idea of where students have access to lectures and notes online and come to class with specific questions. His research opens the conversation for new styles of teaching to be implemented for students. However, other scholars of the past like Paula Warnken have different opinions. She is a librarian, and offers a different perspective. She believes that the integration of technology would have a harmful effect on ability to learn new information because they would be too focused on learning to use the ever advancing technology. Her research shows that since students have remarkably easy access to unlimited information they are not taking the time to implement the process of proper research and will result in less capable students and a flawed education system. I agree with the claim that education will be beneficial to students and will continue to improve the quality of education and schooling. THE INTEGRATION OF TECHNOLOGY IN THE EDUCATION SYSTEM 6 References: Corelli, Angelo (2015). Direct vs. Anonymous Feedback: Teacher Behavior in Higher Education, with Focus on Technology  Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences. 52-61 Neil P. Morris (2014). How Digital Technologies Blended Learning and MOOCS will Impact the Future of Higher Education. International Conference e-Learning. Hernando Bustos, Miguel Nussbau (2007). An Experimental Study of the Inclusion of Technology in Higher Education. 100-106. Paula Warnken (2004). The Impact of Technology on Information Literacy Education in Libraries. Managing technology. 151-156.