Educational software impact on students Nowadays social media has been generally applied to education. It brings a lot of benefits to life. In the field of teaching, social media give students high-quality, convenient way of education. The teacher through the social media pushes teaching information to facilitate students to exchange interesting topics or use the online library to find the subject of the content. With the development of the electronics industry, electronic products become cheaper, more and more powerful. For example, now the phone does not just call, and also take pictures and the Internet. More and more schools are starting to use social media to manage students. The teacher publishes assignments and announcements through social media. According to the article Social Media Can and Should Impact Higher (2006), The author discusses how modern science and technology can change learning environment and even school teaching. In the traditional education industry, often teachers unilaterally in the classroom to educate students, students just take notes. For large classes, students who communicate with teachers tend to be fixed a few, other students only record notes, they usually feel very boring. For some courses, such as chemistry, students are not easy to understand chemical changes. Now, the teacher through the educational software allows students to quickly find learning content, the use of video to the intuitive understanding of textbook content. At the same time through software, we can set up groups, exchange ideas, share ideas. The teacher can record the video on the above for students to review the use. Students will have the opportunity to get better information that for learning. I think that education software will change the way students learn. Traditional students based on paper and pen learning, the status quo students through the computer and mobile phone, will get more information. People can get more information through social media, At the same time education software can save a lot of time, because students often go to the library to spend a lot of time to borrow, but now only need to download this book by education software. Bridges, and Hybrid Spaces (2016) Social Media Challenges and Affordances for International Students Research and research on research, access to information, access to information on the impact and changes Software at the same time, fast-food-style reading also flourish. Fast-food  refers only to look at things through the surface of things, without understanding, only need to know a few things in a short time only. Today, fast food reading has been infiltrated to primary and secondary school students. But the good news 1. Significant increase in the amount of information The emergence of electronic products, so that we only need a finger, all kinds of information at your fingertips. Fast-food-style reading will be fresh every day, hot news to streamline the language, lots of pictures, novelty perspective, extreme reviews. We use the phone to browse the latest information, both to ease the learning pressure, but also increased the knowledge. If you can combine the class and extracurricular, over time, will be the overall level of reading the students have a great help. 2. Learning software will reduce waste from time books and libraries. Especially for students only need to access a few information, do not need to buy all the books. This will change the traditional learning methods.For example, you can use the educational software platform for the first time to master the relevant domestic information and scientific research, at the same time, we can make an effective comparison of the research status of the home country and the guest country on the same academic subject. 3. Easy to contact. Traditionally, students come home from school after school, contact with classmates only in telephone or mail. No matter how high a information level, due to time and energy constraints, he can only design a certain quality and quantity of electronic courseware. In order to improve the quality and quantity of electronic courseware, while shortening the design time, you need some excellent teaching software support. Now a lot of educational software helps students to connect with each other, students can group to discuss, help students to share, share knowledge. A good education software can make the teacher a multiplier, effectively help students to communicate with each other, collaboration, so that the network in teaching to maximize the potential, So the state should support the education software enterprises, to encourage enterprises to invest in educational software. Boundaries, (2006), student in English speaking Educational software to change impact on research and research, access to information, access to information The impact and changes in the communication process. Traditional teaching is the center of the teacher, the dominant position, students are forced to learn. Students and teachers choose between each other is more random, not much free space, Once this option is determined, it will not change for a long time, and an incompetent teacher may affect the study of a group of This adverse effect is sometimes irreversible, and may even delay life. The teaching of the network environment is student-centered, the course must be explained with the living environment, Including politics, geography, culture and history and so many other aspects to consider. And students can choose their favorite teachers online, accept their guidance, or according to their level of knowledge, choose their own teaching content. In addition, there are some excellent online teacher lectures video, image and text, and their wealth of teaching experience and trenchant insights. It can be seen that the relationship between teachers and students in the network environment is changed from traditional one to many, and the boundaries between teachers and students are becoming more and more blurred. We can conclude that the education software is good or bad GOOD 1. Increase the speed of information exchange 2. Save paper and protect the environment 3. To facilitate student group discussion 4. Convenient to watch video 5. Easy to find information in the online library BAD 1. Students are addicted to the game 2. Easy to read useless information such as advertising 3. Long-term viewing of the screen is not good for vision 4. false information likely to be misleading. I think social media will continue to change learning habits. In social media, students can easy to find a book from online library, student can easy make a group on social media. They can easy to watch an open class at home. More and more fresh technology is invented, students will get better educational resources References Blankenship, M. (2011). How social media can and should impact higher education. Education Digest, (7), 39. Bridges, Boundaries, and Hybrid Spaces (2016) Social Media Challenges and Affordances for International Students Boundaries, (2006), student in English speaking