Derrick Johnson Jr. Professor Carr U57201388 02/20/2017 Project 1: Final Draft of Annotated Bibliographies and Research Question Research Question: Is enough precaution being taken to reduce major head injuries in football? Introduction: new pastime has grown tremendously since the late with the dawn of the Super Bowl Era. Players such as Walter Payton, Dick Lane, Junior Seau, and Mike Webster have epitomized toughness within the sport for years, and set the standards of fast paced, hard hitting football for what it is today. Since the inception of the sport up until now, the sport has shown extreme physicality but has very little to offer in terms of head and neck protection. Efforts have been made recently to reduce the risk of head and neck injuries such as rule changes, and significantly improved helmets, however even these measures have not been enough to eradicate the newest emerging injury named Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE). Due to the physicality of the sport, experts have come to the conclusion that we cannot completely prevent CTE, we can only reduce the risks of getting it. Annotated Bibliographies: Bailes, J. Fitzsimmons, R. Hammers, J. Omalu, B. Chronic traumatic encephalopathy in a professional american wrestler. (2010) Journal of Forensic Nursing (130-136) This article is a continuation of the case review of the article by Bailes et al where they reviewed multiple brains from professional athletes. This case study goes unnamed but the story of this athlete is popular enough through media, and a movie that is now in the process of being made that we can deduce this is talking about the wrestler Chris Benoit. The biggest difference in this case from Bailes et other article is that this athlete had a history of brain trauma over time, which strengthens their argument. This story of suicide was more graphic than the others as he killed his family as well as himself and left a very cryptic suicide note. Bailes et al uses his trauma over time to strengthen the correlation between CTE and repetitive brain injury.With this case we get a little bit more information into the premortem symptoms of CTE that were not as prevalent in the other cases. I can uses these two articles from Bailes et al together to address different levels of trauma to the brain along with forms of protection to question risk reduction efforts. Bailes, J. DeKosky, S. Hamilton, R. Kamboh, I. Omalu, B. Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) in a National Football League player: Case report and emerging medicolegal practice questions. (2010) Journal of Forensic Nursing (40-46) Bailes et al further support the initial findings of Dr. Bennet Omalu in this case report through their studies of 3 professional athletes in contact sports. Their cases show the correlation of CTE and football while reiterating the fact that it cannot yet be fully distinguished from This study does however, provide us with tables that show consistent data across the board in each case in terms of premortem symptoms (emotional stability, memory, spatial skills etc.). These studies line up very closely in terms of premortem symptoms in a completely unrelated explanation of symptoms in a teenager in the Endgame article. Bailes et al had not found any TAU proteins in the brain they discussed, which research at this point had not yet really been dug into on that area. With this information I can clearly connect all of my articles together, and show the progression of research along with the search for alternatives to preserve mental health and the status of football simultaneously. Hanlon, F. Mayer, A. McGrew C. (2016) Does a unique Neuropsychiatric Profile currently exist for Chronic traumatic encephalopathy? American College of sports medicine. (30-35) In this journal Hanlon et al review different studies, and perspectives over time of the brain injury Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE). The goal is to inform readers of the historical nature of this disease and how closely it relates to other diseases such as Dementia and to show that this disease exists, however there is not enough advanced research to make CTE its own specific injury. Many research strategies are covered from the early looking into boxers and the last decade looking more into boxers and football players as well. Studies provided by the American College of Sports Medicine show that information is being gathered to break the development of CTE down into stages, however there is still not enough evidence to make CTE its own disease. In comparison to the Ahead of the Hit article, this journal shows more of a scientific side of the CTE discussion and provides more context into some of the topics that were briefly mentioned, while adding more information on the research of Dr. Omalu and Dr. Casson alike. Through Hanlon et description of the studies we can get a better look into why Dr. Casson did not want to link CTE and football together too soon, without the dramatization of social media. Hanlon et al also discuss how incorrect self-assessment has led to further damage as an ex-hockey player did this and killed himself, but have CTE. This journal will benefit my question in terms of assessing the disease, and what the underlying problems are while showing the dangers of putting a label on the disease too early as the result can be fatal, and potentially cause hysteria. Once again addressing the problem of how closely related it is to and Dementia, it displays a perspective that would not necessarily benefit monetarily from claiming football is unrelated and can provide a seemingly less biased opinion. With this information I can explore the reasoning behind claims from certain sources and provide more in depth information to answer my question. Murphy, Austin. (2016) Endgame. Sports Illustrated NFL Preview (122-128) In this edition of Sports Illustrated, Austin Murphy describes a world in the future without football and its impact nation wide economically, and within the communities that host NFL organizations to inform about the danger that the sport faces due to its relation to head injuries. Murphy presents a unique perspective on the topic when he addresses the fact that mothers are becoming much more involved in making an effort to protect their children, lawsuits are piling up against football organizations, and rules are changing in a way that may lead to a decline in popularity and its demise. stories provide me with substance on lawsuits facing football organizations, as well as different alternatives that could help reduce concussions. The idea Murphy presents that stands out the most is that concussions cannot be prevented, only reduced. From this entry, I can get a little more perspective on public opinion on CTE, and provide evidence of the impact it has on different age groups, and compare it with other sports from my other bibliographies. Wheelwright, J. (2016). Ahead of the Hit. Discover Magazine (18-20) In Ahead of the hit he addresses a fairly new brain disease called Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE). Although advanced research is new, a closely compared disease is along with similar symptoms shared with boxers. Wheelwright briefly provides a definition of CTE as well as informs the reader about the topic in a historical context connecting the injuries to explain the debate on whether or not CTE is actually a thing, and if it can be tied to football as well as other contact sports. Recently, the National Football League has come under fire due to the implied link between CTE and professional football as well as the alarmingly high amount of concussions within the sport. Dr. Bennet Omalu made the first argument that CTE is linked to football after performing an autopsy on an ex-nfl player and was immediately met with attempts to discredit his theory by the NFL and its neurological consultants Ira Casson and Mitchell Berger. These doctors believed that CTE and football could not be linked yet because there was not enough research to prove that this was an actual disease, and that it came from football. Wheelwright informs the reader that researchers at Boston University are nearly the only people working to discover more about CTE but that Dr. Ann McKee is making strides towards it with her research of protein tangles found in the brains of former boxers, and football players alike. This article sets the tone for the relationship between the NFL and doctors concerned with CTE as well as role in the debate and public outrage. Ahead of the Hit is a good medium between the science and media/monetary sides of CTE and will help develop the argument of this paper. Wheelwright provides examples of findings from doctors both in the NFL and outside of, and provides a historical context of the disease looking back over time at other injuries and symptoms in other sports that had not yet been linked altogether. This will allow me to look at other articles and determine their usefulness, relevancy to my question, and further developing my paper. I tried to do the hanging indent on my citations, but I figure it out without messing up the entire format of my paper. I know I will get points taken off for that, but is there any way you can show me how to do the hanging indent so I know what to do for the next project? Thanks, Derrick Johnson Jr.