THE STANDARD OF SOUND SYNTHESIS The Analog Synthesizer as the standard for sound synthesis machines Andrew Lindstrom University of South Florida THE STANDARD OF SOUND SYNTHESIS Abstract This paper analyzes the pros and cons of the two primary competitors in the industry of synthesized sound, the analog and digital synthesizers. This paper will debrief you, the reader, on information regarding the science and intricacies behind the synthesizer. This paper takes the arguments from collegiate journalists, sound historians, as well as myself. I will be taking the viewpoints from each of the arguments and analyzing the effect of the synthesizer musically, societally, as well as industrially. In doing this, we can begin to discover the various impacts that both iterations of the synthesizer had on the respective subjects. Generally speaking, the authors that have had more experience in music history will tend to have viewpoints that agree with mine. In the lineage of development of synthesized sound, many inventions have been produced, yet many have come as an innovation to this field. In terms of progress, the field of synthesized sound relatively too new to address what inventions are in or passe. Due to this, many debate what in this field is the most effective. This debate falls between analog or digital synthesizers, both of which have advantages and disadvantages that keeps this debate in effect. In this essay, I will be explaining my side of the argument, but also addressing the other side of the argument. I will be explaining as to why I believe the analog synthesizer set the standard for synthesized sound in terms of both societal and technological innovations. To back my argument, I will analyze arguments made both for and against my claim that the analog synthesizer was the innovation that set a long line of innovations in motion. THE STANDARD OF SOUND SYNTHESIS A synthesizer is a piece of technology that resembles a piano, except the key difference between a piano and a synthesizer is that synthesizer is used to imitate a wide variety of sound. It does this by using oscillators that imitate the wavelength and wave shape to match the timbre of the desired sounds. This device has been implemented in music for its capability to intimate nearly any sound desired. The synthesizer is used for commercial and non-commercial music alike and can be heard in tracks all the way back from the The main difference between the two varieties are the complexity of the circuitry. Analog synthesizers are known to have much more complex circuitry, but can allow for a wider palette of sound, while digital synthesizers are easier, but more rigid. The standard that is set by analog synthesizers is within the interfaces almost limitless array of sounds to choose from. Due to the ability to alter the sounds produced, the only permanent part of analog synthesizers was their ability to offer a control panel that easy to manipulate. The sounds were manipulated by rearranging chords into different ports that would change the oscillators output. In a publication by Hood Woodrow of Wake Forest University, he says in his essay The Problem of Persistent Technology Narratives and Practitioner Use that bit digital synthesizers can be loaded with individual sounds sampled from these elderly instruments, the actual characteristics and qualities of the original are lost (Hood, 2013 p. 332) This statement reassures that the sounds themselves effortlessly replaced. Later, he goes on to say that patch chords, analog sequencers, and touch plates, all of which provide more control over the resulting sound than any modern synth (Hood, 2013 p. 335). In this, he confirms the superiority of analog synthesizer interfaces. He uses these claims as his argument so that he can emphasize that these popular sounds implemented on a digital synthesizer originate from the analog synthesizer. THE STANDARD OF SOUND SYNTHESIS To contrast from its technical elements, when the synthesizer was introduced into the world of music, a whole new realm musical philosophy became apparent. I believe that this new paradigm is best described by Nick Collins of the University of Durham. He states that possibility of musical instruments that can produce sound raises the question of what exactly makes a sound (Collins 2013, pg. 42-43). From this one question, we have a whole new way to classify music into genres so that we can differentiate one sound from another. Even classical composers of more recent times play with this concept in their pieces. For example, we have the piece Composed by Karel Husa. In this composition, Husa uses the instruments to create tactile sensations, rather than auditory sensations. In this we have EDM, Glitch trap, and so many other varieties of experimental music, all made easily available through the production of the analog synthesizer. The other point to my argument is that the analog synthesizer set a long line of inventions in the industry of synthesized sound. When the analog synthesizer was made, it set standards that was expected of every invention beyond it. Through researching, I discovered various inventions that had been previous marketed, but had failed to meet sales expectations. For example, I found a device developed and named the Neuron. As described by Mark Vail, a journalist of the Oxford university, in his book The Synthesizer he describes the Neuron and its short comings, stating that expensive ($4,995) and polyphonically challenged (five voices at best) Neuron failed to attract enough buyers to remain in (Vail, 2014 p. 67). This product failed to meet expectations due to the consumers noticing its lack of comparable standards. Being a product of electronic invention, it made it through the threshold in which invention turns into product. As explained by T.J Pinch in Analog Days, field of electronic THE STANDARD OF SOUND SYNTHESIS music instruments is littered with inventions, but very few (Pinch, 2009 p.332) In this statement, Pinch implies that within the timeline of technology, there have been many new things produced in that realm, very few however actually revolutionize the realm of the instrument itself. This is ever more relevant when commenting on the Neuron. Now when we look at the argument made against the analog synthesizer, we notice that it comes down to two main arguments, that analog synthesizers are too bulky, and that they are not user friendly. To combat these arguments, I will say that there is a hierarchy in this structura, that being that digital synthesizers exist more for those who are recently introduced to synthesized sound. As the user becomes more familiar with the layout for the digital, he/she will go more in depth and begin to explore the intricacies of sound manipulation. To conclude, the analog synthesizer is a machine that must be understood in order for it to reach its full capacity. This is expected of a machine that single handedly created a new paradigm in the music world. U While writing, this paper, we have analyzed what perspective these articles have to offer. Once these articles are explored, it will become evident that from a technological, ergonomic, and societal standpoint that the analog synthesizer that even though it proceeds the digital synthesizer, the digital model had failed to innovate past the viability of the analog model. Until then, the digital synthesizer will continue to appeal to the masses. References 1. Vail, M. (2000). Keyboard Magazine Presents Vintage Synthesizers : Groundbreaking Instruments, Pioneering Designers, Collecting Tips, Mutants from the Tar Pits. Miller Freeman Books. THE STANDARD OF SOUND SYNTHESIS 2. Collins, N., Schedel, M., & Wilson, S. (2013). Electronic Music. [electronic Cambridge : Cambridge University Press, 2013. 3. Hood, W. (2013). Creative Non-Fiction Essay--The Problem of Persistent Technology Narratives and Practioner Use: The Case of the Moog Synthesizer and Moogfest, or Will Analog Survive?. Technoculture: An Online Journal Of Technology In Society, 31-26. 4. Pinch, T.J, and Frank Trocco. Analog  Google Books. Havard University Press, 30 June 2009. Web. 07 Mar. 2017.