A Running Controversy A Running Controversy Jonathan Jackson University of South Florida 2 A Running Controversy In the modern era, we perceive personal health as one of the most absolute necessities for a higher quality of life. For some, this means hitting the gym for bigger biceps; for others, a less intensive recreation such as yoga or Pilates. From extreme body builders to weekend warriors, there seems to be one important common factor employed by all of Running has been considered the quickest and most effective answer to weight loss, improved cardiovascular endurance, and even mental health. However, as the well-reputed practice grew in popularity, its skepticisms grew simultaneously. Over the last decade specifically, we have seen a rapid increase in articles and studies supporting the counterargument against running for your health. All over the internet, in magazines and books, even in seminars at road races and running clinics, the movement to move away from running and to other lesser impact alternatives has gained momentum at an alarming rate. While many of these claims contain substantial legitimacy, arguments against running are rather easily dismantled as it can be noticed among similar trends throughout history that as a theory or notion becomes more established, the community will attempt to challenge it in an effort to either legitimize or expel the theory. Throughout my paper, I will not only exemplify the true benefits of running, but also provide facts that will expel these counterarguments composed of nothing more than smoke and mirrors. In my own experience as an avid distance runner of nearly 8 years now, I have had more than enough time to honestly weigh the benefits and drawbacks of running from what I believe to be an unbiased point of view. Running has enriched my life and the others around me in so many ways; from improved physical fitness to a more A Running Controversy disciplined, well-rounded mindset, running has supplied me with the tools necessary to achieve more at the highest level in life. In a 2012 study conducted by Petra Wolseiffen, several researchers collaborated to study the cognitive effects running has on the brain. The results were consistent and sound, concluding that chemicals released during running had short and long-term relief of stress, increased focus on daily tasks, and lower brain activity in the region of the brain responsible for anxiety and stress. These results prove that running has positive effects for mental health and can potentially improve your academic performance with as little as 20-30 minutes of slow, easy jogging to start each day. In addition to improved mental health, running has been shown to increase physicality just as much as or even more than similar endurance exercises such as swimming or biking. While the counterargument stands for claims proving the long-term negative effects of running such as deterioration of joint tissue and stress fractures, it can be noted that these drawbacks are easily avoidable and are often products of people neglecting their core and stretching routines. Another obvious hole in this argument is the fact that nearly half of Americans suffer from obesity and/or other diseases and disorders brought on by obesity such as diabetes and high blood pressure. While minor joint tissue damage can be annoying and somewhat costly, this drawback is nothing in comparison to the life threatening drawbacks brought on by a total lack of exercise. Perhaps the biggest myth implied by the anti-running argument is the side effects that running has on our immune system and vital blood components. In a book titled written by author and researcher John A. Hawley at Oxford College, Hawley takes a seat at the table of scholarly discussion in what could be described as the biggest 4 A Running Controversy impact a single piece of work has ever had on the opposing side of the argument. His book focused mainly on how running depletes minerals in our blood such as ferritin and that have been strongly linked to anemia and other life altering conditions that take months and in severe cases even years to cure. Furthermore, his book also entails specific details on how running can weaken the runners immune system to make them more susceptible to contagious illnesses. While this book was able to raise a lot of eyebrows and the counterargument, upon further examination I and many others believe that Hawley is misrepresenting facts in a hidden manner, leaving out specific details that would virtually discredit his entire argument. For example, to reach the point where your body is depleting iron at an unsafe rate that would lead to anemia, you would have to run at least an hour everyday with little to no experience in running. While some point out that plenty of people already do this, we must understand that those at this level of training have taken years of hard work and sacrifice in order to attain this level of fitness, and rarely see the side effects Hawley listed in this part of his argument. But perhaps the claim with the most truth to its name is the opinion concerning the wellness of a runner immune system during training. Regular long distance runners have been proven to be more susceptible to contagious diseases and infections due to the body having to work to help itself recover from strenuous exercise, thus taking energy from the immune system to support its own physicality. However, what Hawley does not mention is the proven long-term stability of a immune system after they decrease or totally cease their running habits. By making the immune system work with a smaller amount of given energy during training, runners can expect to have an immune system due to the sudden increase in supplied energy thus causing the A Running Controversy immune system to perform at a heightened rate for years to come. To back this answer to counterargument, I referred back to a book in which author and avid runner herself Oborny Josef interviews veteran runners; from Olympians to every day hobby joggers. This book is mainly based on own thoughts and opinions on how running has affected them as opposed to the more traditional method of conducting and gathering research through tests and experiments. Reading through the book, I found a plethora of responses indicating feeling not only healthier and stronger overall, but also a long series of reports indicating their frequency of illnesses felt much lower than their friends and family around them that involved in the culture of running. In order to implement my argument to fullest degree, I have decided not to pull up another biased source or opinionated article, but rather address the counterargument at its source and why it has gained so much momentum in so little time. Over the years, we have seen hundreds of thousands of arguments just like this one take place. By logic it can be no coincidence that where there is opinion, there is counterargument working to disprove it. But why have we seen such consistency in the theme of the two-sided argument? Why every time a theory becomes well-known and established does it bring criticism and skeptics working feverishly to discredit its validity? The simplest explanation of this concept is the fact that science works to find the truth; but in order to reach the truth, we must first challenge and critique every known law there is in an effort to either legitimize or expel our established knowledge. When running had hit its peak in popularity it seemed as though everyone was advocating to run for your health, for your physique, to clear your head, to join a social group even. Running was a universal answer that millions sought comfort in. But with rising 6 A Running Controversy popularity, scientists began to question. They ran tests, they conducted research, they observed, calculated, and documented every aspect of the running phenomena. But due to its growing popularity, in the last decade or so we have seen a substantial shift towards people trying to weaken the argument in favor of running. This is merely because in the scientific community, we are constantly working towards the answer by rigorously testing and challenging our established knowledge hoping that ultimately it will leave us with an absolute resolution to the argument. So when we see these abundances of research working for the opposing side of the conversation, we must note that they are hindered with bias as they are mere products of a natural tendency to challenge, and often times they are nothing more than that. A Running Controversy Sources John A. Hawley. 2000 January 18 th Oxford; Malden, Mass. Oxford College. Petra Wolseiffen. The Effects of Running on Brain Activity, Mood, and Cognitive Performance. Stefan Schneider; Lisa Anne Martin; Hugo A. Kerherve. (2012) Institute of Movement and Neurosciences, German Sport University Cologne. Cologne, Germany. Anderson, L. M. (2007). Body Image (Vol. 17). New York, NY: Body Image. doi:6 Jensen, B. R. (2004). Journal of Applied Biomechanics (4th ed., Vol. 32). Copenhagen: University of Copenhagen. doi: Caroline Mueller, Elizabeth Ackley-Holbrook. 2016. (Vol. 30 Issue 1). Oborny Josef. 2016. and holistically Interpreted (Vol. 26). http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail