Running head: EFFECT OF THE ANTI-VACCINE MOVEMENT 1 The Deteriorative Effects of Anti-Vaccine Movements in the Global Population Yuly Basulto University of South Florida Instructor Carr DANGERS OF THE ANTI-VACCINE MOVEMENT 2 Abstract Anti-vaccine movements have been around as long as vaccines themselves, over the past two decades there have been many claims fueling the movements but in recent years its popularity has exponentially grown due to the internet and to many influential individuals supporting the movement. This endangers the idea of Herd immunity and puts the community at risk of many life threatening diseases otherwise preventable through immunization. Keywords: Immunization, Herd Immunization, immunocompromised DANGERS OF THE ANTI-VACCINE MOVEMENT 3 The Effect of the Anti-Vaccine Movement in the Global Population A century ago the average life expectancy of humans was approximately 45 years of age, today the average is around 79 years of age. We can accredit this to the massive growth of medical sciences and technology. Vaccines are among the greatest contributors to this achievement. With the development of vaccines to fight diseases such as Measles or Smallpox, which killed around 1.2 million individuals annually in the mid 20 th century, people realized just how important this medical advancement was. Even though the results were clear there still existed some skepticism among the public regarding the safety of vaccines and the restrictions that it put on personal freedom. While many oppose mandatory immunization due to rumors and misinformation, I argue that the benefits of vaccines far outweigh the risks, saving millions of lives every year and eradicating deadly diseases, mandatory immunization is an essential need for a healthy population. In 1998, a British doctor and researcher, Andrew Wakefield and a few of his colleagues published a research paper on Lancet, alleging that the MMR vaccine led to pervasive developmental disorders, or autism. Despite not having much evidence and only a few samples, the paper achieved huge coverage. The news spread incredibly fast in the medical community. Almost immediately after, another study was posted debunking the vaccine and autism link, after this incident more information came to light diminishing the credibility of the paper even more. After the situation had been cleared the damage had already been done, many activists and media outlets had reported on the situation, but the truth was never completely covered. With rumors spreading about vaccination being harmful more and more people started supporting the DANGERS OF THE ANTI-VACCINE MOVEMENT 4 movement in fear of vaccine producing companies. Some people still to this day refuse to get their children vaccinated in fear of autism. This is reason is clearly invalid because after the initial paper was published there have been countless other scientific papers negating it, no one has been able to replicate the original experiment. Furthermore, refusal to vaccines have been linked to many harmful effects to the individual and to others around. In 1998, the Gangarosa International Health study, Impact of anti-vaccine movements on pertussis control: the untold story, linked the effects that Anti-vaccine movements had on pertussis occurrence in countries where these movement disrupted the immunization process like Russia, Ireland, Italy, Sweden and Japan vs countries without such movements like the U.S., Hungary, East Germany, and Poland. The results of this study showed that in these countries where immunization was disrupted the occurrence of pertussis was 10 to 100 time greater than countries without the movements (p. 129). These results support what the scientific community has been saying for years. Another aspect of the society that is put at risk is Herd immunity, this is a concept of indirect immunization. According to Vaccines.gov, herd immunity is when by the immunization of the majority of individuals in a community, those who are not eligible for certain vaccines (infants, pregnant women, and immunocompromised individuals) can have an indirect protection against the disease. As stated by Allison Whelan in her 2015 article Lowering the Age of Consent: Pushing Back against the Anti-Vaccine Movement, immunization rates can prevent herd the protection provided by immunization is something essential for those immunocompromised individuals, while they cannot get vaccinated themselves, they need to rely on the community in order to maintain their health. By neglecting vaccines, these groups are neglecting the health of other individuals. Another aspect that Whelan criticizes is DANGERS OF THE ANTI-VACCINE MOVEMENT 5 how legislature is not strict enough about making vaccines mandatory. She states that on one hand legislature makes immunization mandatory but the religious and cultural exceptions to the law are so broad that they nearly render it useless (Whelan, p464, 2015) according to her the government needs to have a firm hand when it comes to mandated immunization. This is where a major problem emerges for some people. Many people believe that they should have complete authority over their lives, that the state should not interfere with their choice to get vaccinated or not, some believe that the government making immunization mandatory is striping away their very own freedom. However, this is not true, in order to maintain a healthy community, it is necessary for everyone to get immunized against preventable diseases, personal freedom is something that everyone is entitled to, but not to the point of knowingly putting lives in danger. While it has been scientifically proven that vaccines have minimal to no harmful effects the anti-vaccine movement has expanded faster than ever before in the past two decades due to the immense growth of the internet. According to Cameron Bisset in his 2012 article The Scientific Facts about Autism and Vaccines back in the everything on the internet was filtered by internet providers, as the internet grew this task became virtually impossible. This made it easier for misinformation and rumors to spread on the web. One these rumors was the vaccine and autism link that Dr. Andrew Wakefield published. This rumor only fueled the anti- vaccine movement even more (Bisset, p.42, 2014). The internet was not the only social factor fueling the movements popularity, as stated by Cong D. Choi in the article Ethics of Celebrities and Their Increasing Influence in 21st Century Society, celebrities like Jim Carrey, Donald Trump, and others who have great influence on the public also publically support the movement. While this creates more popularity for the movement, the end result is that misinformation is DANGERS OF THE ANTI-VACCINE MOVEMENT 6 being spread and the ones who suffer the consequences is the public. All in all, mandatory immunization is a very controversial topic. While it is essential to for every individual to have personal freedom, it is not acceptable to put other lives at risk. It is essential for people to be informed before making decisions on matters as important as vaccination. The government should make vaccination mandatory, and it should better inform individuals on the science of vaccines. It is essential for the public to get rid of the stigma associated with vaccines and start working together towards a safe future. DANGERS OF THE ANTI-VACCINE MOVEMENT 7 REFERENCES: Bisset, Cameron. The Scientific Facts about Autism and Vaccines. Digital image. Vaccine Nation. Vaccine Nation, 23 Sept. 2014. Choi, Chong D., and Ron Berger. of Celebrities and Their Increasing Influence in 21st Century Journal of Business Ethics (2010) Gangarosa, E., Galazka, A., et al. (1998). Impact of anti-vaccine movements on pertussis control: the untold story. Lancet, 351(9099). Kata, Anna. Activists, Web 2.0, and the Postmodern Paradigm An Overview of Tactics and Tropes Used Online by the Anti-Vaccination Vaccine 30.25 (2012): 3778-789. Poland, G., Jacobson, R., & Ovsyannikova, I. (2009, May 26). Trends affecting the future of vaccine development and delivery: The role of demographics, regulatory science, the anti- vaccine movement, and vaccinomics. Vaccine, 27(25-26). Whelan, A. M. (2016). Lowering the Age of Consent: Pushing Back against the Anti-Vaccine Movement. Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, 44(3), 462-473.