War on Illegal Immigration The process of becoming a citizen in America can take up 6 months to several years, assuming that the applicant is already an established resident in America. If not the process can last from several years to the possibility of absolute denial of entry from the American government long Now when we take a look at the millions of people entering the united states illegally we must ask ourselves why. Is it because of the long years of waiting for the unorganized American immigration system? Or because on average citizenship costs seven hundred and forty five dollars not including additional fees much With the most recent election of President Trump, immigration has been a hot topic. Trump claims he wants to build a wall across the border to keep out the illegal immigrants. However not only is this suggestion highly racist against brown people entering America, it is also ineffective, expensive, and illogical. An organization that stands for all immigrants regardless of legal status, The National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights (NNIRR) advocates for protection of immigrants and for a reformed immigration process. An opposing organization, Mothers Against Illegal Aliens (MAIA) believes illegal immigrants are corrupting their children and want to deport all illegal immigrants.The war on illegal immigrants in America is so much more than a fear of crime, or a fear of The war on immigration is racist, classist, and based on a false prejudice of brown immigrants. This issue can be solved not by closing our borders but opening them. There needs to first be a complete revamp of the current immigration bureau, then a revaluation on the guidelines on accepting new immigrants, and lastly a real solution on what to do with the illegal immigrants who currently reside in the united states. As previously mentioned the citizen process takes an extremely long time to complete. It is filled with stacks of paperwork, interviews, and interrogations. It seems that much of this is unnecessary, the process is too slow for people who may be going through some life threatening measures in their home countries or are risking being deported to become an American citizen. A CNN article that interviewed newly Naturalized American citizens quoted one of the men who started The process was a nightmare that never ended: thousands of dollars and many years of fear and  (Rodriguez.) I personally have spoken to many who claim that they are interrogated and teased by the immigration officers. A woman I work with was telling me about the process her husband went through as an immigrant from England. She told me that interrogators had them in separate rooms and asked her questions like what color her toothbrush was and asked him questions like what kind of birth control was his wife taking. Although it seems justified, we only want the best entering our country, some of the process is utterly ridiculous and a waste of time and money. We need to cut out the redundant or useless parts of the immigration process and keep it simple. We can stick to background checks and less ridiculous interviews. However one thing that seems to be not commonly known is the fact that the naturalization process includes a test. The test is a civics test, the applicant is given a booklet with 100 questions to study about american history, at the time of the test the immigration officer will ask them up to 10 of the questions. You may have seen videos going around Facebook of Americans attempting the test and most of which failing. The process is suddenly dependent on your knowledge of pretty useless history instead of whether or not a decent person. There is also an English test that the applicant must take. Ironically enough the study materials for both tests mentioned are available in most other languages and the United States of America has no national language meaning it is not necessary for one to understand english to live here. The National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights fights for and just immigration and wants reform for naturalization They state that this is a human rights issue that needs to be solved all throughout their platform. However it mean much to reform the immigration process to make it more accessible if the stakes are still too high to be cut out to be an American. America is not a perfect country, just like every other country we have our flaws. Why are the stakes so high? Why do we expect perfect humans to be the only ones allowed across the border. fair to not want criminals or people who are connected to some possible threatening ties however some of the criteria is too selective and at times a little bit racist and classist. Its no secret that the more money you make the more fast tracked your application will be. And also no secret that immigrants from the Middle East or predominantly muslim countries have a much harder time getting citizenship granted (and now impossible due to ban). Mexican immigrants and immigrants from South America receive many questions about whether or not they are involved in drug cartels. It seems that each group of immigrants are targeted towards stereotypes. However in an interview an illegal irish immigrant he states that he very rarely faces prejudice because of his european background and that he can speak english in a accent. But when a hispanic immigrant is caught speaking english with a heavy accent some native born Americans might even call them out and accuse them of being illegal and to tell them to out of my If the immigration process is so selective then why do people feel that all (brown) immigrants are criminals, free loaders, and so on. Organizations like MAIA want to reinforce immigration laws because they feel their children are being corrupted by children of illegal immigrants although minors are naturalized to be able to attend school in America from certain countries. But why do they feel this way? no real evidence proving that immigrants commit more crime than white Americans do. Who is feeding this false information to American people? Nobody is willing to do the research to know that naturalization is extremely selective and that the officers on your case practically have to know your life inside and out before you are granted citizenship. This invasive process is a bit too much, we want to protect our own citizens but as the world police as some like to say, it is duty to help those who are in countries that allow them to have freedom. Works Cited Long Does the US Citizenship Process US Immigration News RSS , 12 Sept. 2011, Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. Much Does it Cost to Apply for US US Immigration Blog RSS , 16 Mar. 2017, Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. for the right USCIS Civics Test Introduction , my.uscis.gov/prep/test/civics. Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. Rodriguez, Rachel. citizens explain why American by CNN , Cable News Network, 4 July 2012, Accessed 18 Apr. 2017.