Johnson 1 Hunter Johnson Prof. Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 9 April 2017 Catch and Release One of the top recreations is fishing. It is a hobby passed down from generation to generation. With 24.9 billion dollars spent each year on fishing, it is clear that it is a popular hobby. (Gable) It is also clear that fishing is a growing hobby, because the number of anglers rose from 33.9 million in 2006 to 37.4 million in 2011. (U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service) However, the growing rate of anglers has a negative effect on fish populations. With more people picking up the hobby of fishing, more fish are being harvested. Even though the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has strict regulations on harvesting fish, it is simple math to see that the population of fish is still affected. Say a single angler is only allowed one fish a day and there are only ten fish in a small pond, then that means it would only take ten days to wipe out the fish population. Cases like this happen all over the country. For example, there was a case where a man who harvested over 400 fish from a lake in Minnesota. The daily limit for this lake was only 30 fish a day. The man was of course arrested and was faced with a $3,000 fine, but the fish that were killed cannot be brought back into the ecosystem. (Lauritsen) Doing this harms the ecosystem and ruins the sport for future anglers. That is why catch and release fishing should be promoted to all current and future sportsmen. In order to bring awareness of this issue, there will be an event held by the University of South Fishing Team that will teach new anglers how to successfully catch and release a fish. The event will also teach new techniques that current anglers can use to prevent harming fish, allowing the fish to live another day. Johnson 2 Harvesting fish is not necessarily a bad thing. Catching fish has been a way that people have fed their families for centuries. In addition, harvesting fish can help over-population of fish in ponds, lakes, and rivers. However, it is when harvesting fish becomes obsessive and abusive that it becomes a problem. Overharvesting can affect future and current anglers. When every fish is taken from a body of water, that body of water is useless to the angler. Fish should be released so they can produce more fish and grow bigger. Smaller fish should be released so they can grow into larger fish. Large fish especially should be release. These fish are the breeders of the ponds and lakes. A single largemouth bass can lay 4,000 eggs per pound of body mass. (Smith) Recreationally, large fish should be released so other anglers can enjoy catching a trophy sized fish. New anglers often get discouraged when they cannot catch a fish that they can brag about. Also, new anglers often tend to have an urge to keep their fish to eat. However, it would be better for an angler to just take a picture of the fish and let the fish live another day. An environmental effect of overharvesting, is the control of mosquito populations. Fish are the number one species that controls mosquito populations. In 2015, approximately two-thousand people reported cases of malaria in the United States. (CDC) Imagine that number if fish were not there to control mosquito populations. This is just on the recreational aspect; the commercial fishery is even worse. A total of almost 80% of the fisheries are over-exploited or depleted. Worldwide about 90% of the large predatory fish stocks are already gone. (Koster) Not only are people losing a recreation but also a major food source and entire ecosystems. It is important that fishermen start implementing catch and release habits now. On April 26 th , 2017, the University of South Florida Fishing Team will be hosting a catch and release event at the Simmons Park Pond on campus. This event has a few purposes. One purpose is to immerse people who do not fish into a new hobby. The second purpose is break Johnson 3 harmful fishing habits and replace them with new catch and release techniques. The event will start off with a seminar that educates anglers on the negative effects of overfishing and how to properly catch and release a fish. It will teach anglers how to properly handle a fish and that fish should only be out of water for a maximum of five minutes. The seminar will also show anglers new tackle and techniques that can used in order to safely catch and release a fish. For example, how anglers should use circle hooks instead of J-hooks to prevent the fish from swallowing the hook. Then the event will finish with a friendly fishing tournament. The rules of the tournament will be catch and release of course. Hopefully by the end of the event, current and future anglers will understand the importance of catch and release fishing. Overfishing has become an issue worldwide. Overfishing can lead to economical, recreational, and ecological problems. Sadly, overfishing is often overlooked because the people who notice it are typically only the anglers themselves. That is why the University of South Florida Fishing Team is hosting an event to promote catch and release fishing. It is important for current and future angler to take action now to bring awareness about over-harvesting of fish. Johnson 4 Works Cited Gable, Melinda. Hunting and Fishing: Bright Stars of the  Congressional Foundation, May 2013. Web. Koster, Pepijn. A Global Overfishing.org. 5 Oct. 2012. Web. Lauritsen, John. DNR Catches Angler With 400 Fish Over State  WCCO CBS Minnesota. N.p., 29 May 2012. Web. Smith, Steven. The Largemouth  Noble Foundation. N.p., 1 May 2008. Web. U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service USFWS-WSFR National  Official Web page of the Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Program. U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 7 Jan. 2011. Web.