Rodriguez 1 Eric Rodriguez ENC1102 Professor Campbell April 18, 2017 Sioux: Mni Wiconi For the past few years there has been a conflict over the construction of a pipeline to access the Bakken Oil reservoirs. The Energy transfer partners are a conglomerate behind the project. Sunoco is a major shareholder in the company. The United States Army Corps of Engineers (US ACE) has been signing off on all plans and public /federal land use that the pipeline covers. The Sioux have a rich history. They traded fur with the Dutch and the French prior to U.S expansion westward. Later on, their business would be solely with the United States. Their culture and lifestyle are based in their religion. They believe that humans and animals not competing, but are interrelated and interdependent elements of the The Native Nations within our country are U.S. citizens. As U.S citizens we have rights; most famously our first amendment to the Constitution. The first amendment is famously heralded for our Freedom of speech, press, to gather and protest (peacefully). Frequently overlooked is the Freedom of Religion. During the Construction of the pipeline Sacred sites for the religious practices of the Sioux were bulldozed prematurely Rodriguez 2 signed off on by USACE. Twenty-seven graves were disturbed. This sacred land was important in ceremonies surrounding the path of the warrior The Sioux and those who support them have gathered countless times in areas all over the globe. The Native Americans had to picket local media stations to get news coverage of their protests. Being thus marginalized they had to protest to get out the news that they were protesting. The public apathy towards the Native American cause has allowed big companies to get away with atrocities such as bulldozing sacred sites, and threatening water supplies. The controversy lies mainly in the dispute over water. The original plans for the pipeline lead on a path away from waterbodies, but after concern was raised for the water qualities in Bismarck USACE approved the current route. It runs under several rivers and Lake Oahe. The water that supplies the reservation is now at risk if anything were to go wrong. The outrage is within reason. However, the Energy Transfer Partners claim that the private land allows them to build. The problem is that through the various water legislation the natives have certain rights to the water. It is also more than water it is the respect and preservation of the Sioux at risk here. They are, once again, being cheated without fair voice in the matter. ETP claims their leaders have been in contact the entire time with the Tribal Council, which the council denies. The supreme court has been in and out on this topic, the Natives struggle with proper processing power as far as legal matters go. Although it may not seem like it, this is a civil rights and human rights movement. The native Americans have been oppressed by the US government. Their lands have been taken from them and they had been taken advantage of for the sake of the economy for as long as the Rodriguez 3 Country has been here and then some. They are speaking out for fair treatment. Many similarities can be drawn between the Civil Rights movement from the and this movement. In both movements, the children played vital roles by taking initiative and understanding the need for such powerful peaceful demonstrations. The march in Birmingham kids walked from all over. For the Indians, a little girl and 12 of her friends walked all the way from the reservation to the white house. The teens drove to the rally meetings. Lakota youth rode horses to the construction zones. There have been attacks on the protesters in several cases. All the protesters peaceful, have had dogs released in which people have suffered severe bites. Rubber bullets, tear gas, water cannons and some arrests were made. There seems to be an expectation that violence and the censorship of voice to happen in all other countries except our own, we so easily forget the deprecating sins within our history. The Indians message is one of hope and preservation. Their campaign slogan is in Lakota: Mni  which means water is life. They understand the concept of sustainability and have for centuries. The Native Americans of the plains have seen many species disappear due to disturbances and their habitats or overhunting. None more iconic then the buffalo. As a people, they pride themselves in their culture in which they take only what they need so that there may be enough to go around now today and in the future. The Oceti Sakowin, or Seven Council Fires camp located near the edge of the Standing Rock reservation has been a beacon of that concept. It was recently evacuated and bulldozed for the pipeline to progress. The beliefs shared that the earth is a powerful (spiritual) force, and its preservation will lead to ours in the future is what brought all of the water protectors together. water there cannot be life and without life there be anyone to support an Rodriguez 4 This issue encompasses many facets that allow it to be inexcusable in history such as Constitutional, environmental and human rights. With the fight not yet over people still protest and donate to the Sioux to help cover legal the fate of the environment in the U.S. is uncertain with a President who has the worst environmental policy; he have one. Still, many people look to the future generation to take heed of the warnings and continue working towards a cleaner dignified and proud future. Rodriguez 5 Works Cited Gibbon, Guy. The Sioux: the Dakota and Lakota Nations. Oxford, Blackwell, 2006. Facebook.com/digitalsmokesignals/ Facebook.com/lakotapeoplelawproject/ Parks, Douglas R. and Raymond J. DeMallie. Sioux Indian Religion. [Electronic : Tradition and Innovation. Norman : University of Oklahoma Press, c1987., 1987. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ca t00847a&AN=usflc.020907748&site=eds-live. Standing Rock, Kkbold, standingrock.org/. Accessed 19 Mar. 2017. Access Pipeline Dakota Access Pipeline Facts, daplpipelinefacts.com/ U.S. Department of the Interior, www.doi.gov/. EnergyTransfer.com - Home Page, Energy Transfer Partners, www.energytransfer.com/. Pipeline Settles Alleged Clean Water Act Violations Related to Spills in Texas, Nebraska and EPA, Environmental Protection Agency, 19 Jan. 2017, www.epa.gov/newsreleases/magellan-pipeline-settles-alleged-clean-water-act- violations-related-spills-texas. Miller, G. Tyler, and Scott Spoolman. Living in the Environment, AP Edition. 16th ed. Belmont, C.A.: Brooks/Cole, Cengage Learning, 2012. Print. Standing Rock Sioux Chairman Describes Mood After Pipeline  Weekend All Things Considered, 10 Sept. 2016. Literature Resource Center, go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/i.do?p=LitRC&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&i Rodriguez 6 t=r&id=GALE%7CA463246417&asid=caabd54f09dd205aa9eb7b17390b93c4. Accessed 15 Feb. 2017