Fabacher 1 Andrew Fabacher Instructor: Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 25 April 2017 The Importance of Compensating Student-Athletes Imagine going to work for over 40 hours per week and not getting paid one cent. That is what is happening across the country as college athletes put in hundreds of hours per year toward their sport, while receiving no compensation for their efforts or for the use of their name, image or likeness (NIL) in promotional deals. Debate on compensating student-athletes has been ongoing since the early 1900s. Since that time, there has been tremendous growth in college sports revenues, with three National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) divisions and multiple championships held each year. The revenue for 2013 was $913 million and the whole industry brings in over $11 billion annually through contracts to the NCAA for product licensing deals, apparel sales, television deals, and electronic media such as DVDs, video games and online streaming content (Afshar 99). To date, student-athletes are not paid for their services and do not benefit monetarily from this multi-billion endorsement industry or from television contracts. This is due to the rules on amateurism which strictly limit payments to student-athletes to scholarships that include tuition, fees and minimal living expenses. Today, student-athletes and their advocacy organizations such as the National College Players Association (NCPA) would like the athletes to receive a share of the enormous revenue stream created in most part due to services Home National College Players ). This is not only a reasonable request, but necessary to stop the exploitation of these athletes. Fabacher 2 Student-athletes, parents and individuals who are interested in this controversy have already made their voices heard. To further compel the NCAA to allow for student-athletes to be paid, even individuals who are not engaged in the controversy, but who feel a moral obligation and agree that these athletes are being exploited, need to take a stand by signing a petition through change.org called Athletes Should Be This petition will be delivered directly to NCAA President, Mark Emmert, and the athletic directors at five universities. Founded in 1997, the NCPA is the primary organization that advocates for student-athletes to receive compensation for their work. A study conducted in 2012 by the NCPA and Drexel University, entitled, $6 Billion Heist: Robbing College Athletes Under the Guise of was used to inform student-athletes, parents, and the interested public that they believe the NCAA robbed student-athletes of at least $6.2 billion over a five-year-period between 2011-2015. The study concluded that the NCAA is using as tool to deny athletes billions of dollars per year in revenue that they would otherwise receive in a fair (McKenchnie). Today, the primary goal is to advocate for ability to receive additional scholarship money, beyond what the NCAA calls the Home National College Players ). Critics of the NCAA agree with the NCPA and maintain that raising scholarship amounts by $3,000-5,000 per year will help cover the shortfall that student-athletes experience since full scholarships cover all of their living expenses (Johnson and Acquaviva). According to the NCPA, current scholarships amounts leave 85% of student-athletes living below the poverty line Home National College Players ). The NCPA President, Ramogi Huma said, college athlete, recruit and parent should go to the NCPA web site and look closely at these Fabacher 3 shortfall numbers. Otherwise, they will find that their full scholarship is leaving them buried in unexpected Home National College Players ). To this end, the NCPA has suggested that a portion of the $11 billion the NCAA will receive from CBS over the next 14 years for television rights to the Final Four Basketball Tournament, should go toward annual scholarship shortfalls. In addition, the NCPA believes compensation should be provided to student-athletes in the form of payment for medical expenses for injuries incurred during sports-related activities Home National College Players ). Finally, the NCPA maintains that student-athletes should be allowed to directly benefit from commercial opportunities. Research suggests that the refusal violates the rights of publicity (Cronk 135-165). The NCPA and their supporters are strong advocates for student-athletes reaping the rewards of the multi-billion dollar college athletics industry, despite NCAA rules against it. Student-athletes, parents, the NCPA and others engaged in college sports already have a keen interest in ensuring payment for these athletes, but others who may not even have an interest in college sports should also feel an obligation to the cause. There is irrefutable evidence that these young men and women are being taken advantage of. In a multi-billion dollar industry, the only people who are not getting paid or who have their earnings restricted, are the very people who fuel the industry, the athletes themselves. Many other stakeholders are making enormous amounts of money, including the colleges, the coaches, television networks, promotional companies, and above all the NCAA. Moreover, there are no other students on college campuses that have their earnings restricted because of their talent. Imagine if a music student on scholarship was not able to play his or her instrument anywhere that offered him or Fabacher 4 her money. Or imagine an art major not being able to sell his or her artwork on the open market without jeopardizing their scholarship. The unfair treatment of student-athletes can be compared to slave labor with the students-athletes performing as the slaves to the colleges and the NCAA. Individuals, whether or not they care about college sports, must realize this treatment is bordering on illegal, and is at the very least, highly immoral. Even individuals who have a stake in this lucrative industry should feel a sense of obligation to help make a difference in these lives. In addition to the student-athletes, parents, and those who are already interested in college athletics, it is important for the previously unaware, who now feel a moral obligation to stand up for the athletes, to take a stand. Collectively individuals wield a tremendous amount of power. It is important that everyone make their voices heard so that student-athletes are able to reap the benefits of their efforts. Individuals can petition the NCAA by going to Change.org and searching the for the petition, Athletes Should Be and taking a stand. The petition will be delivered directly to the president of the NCAA, Mark Emmert, as well as the athletic directors at five major universities including the University of Southern California, the University of California at Berkley, Duke University, the University of Michigan, and Stanford University. Each and every signature on the petition sends a clear and strong message to the NCAA and the universities that this unfair exploitation of our college athletes is unacceptable. When individuals stand united to face the NCAA and to support the NCPA in their efforts, it is possible to enact change and help student-athletes receive the compensation they deserve. Fabacher 5 Student-athletes deserve the right to be paid for their services and to benefit from the multi-billion dollar endorsement industry and television contracts that result from their services. Due to the rules of amateurism instituted by the NCAA in 1948, student-athletes are only able to receive limited scholarships as compensation for their work. Since this time, the college sports business has grown into a multi-billion industry and the athletes whose services fuel the industry still live below the poverty level. time for individuals who now understand the plight of student-athletes, to stand up in support of these athletes and to end the exploitation that has been going on for almost seventy years. As the basketball icon, Kareem Abudul-Jabbar, who played for UCLA said, the name of fairness, we must bring an end to the indentured servitude of college athletes and start paying them what they are (Eromosele). Fabacher 6 Works Cited Afshar, Arash. Collegiate Athletes: The Conflict Between NCAA Amateurism and a Student Right of  Law 51.1 (2014): 99. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. Cronk, Erin. Encroachment: Why the NCAA Must Compensate Student-Athletes for the Use of Their Names, Images, and of La Verne Law Review 34.2 (2013): OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). 24 Jan. 2017. Eromosele, Diana Ozemebhoya. Kareem Abdul-Jabbar: College Athletes Should Be Paid  Www.theroot.com, 13 Nov. 2014. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. Home National College Players  National College Players N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Johnson, Dennis A., and John Acquaviva. Point/Counterpoint: Paying College  Sport 1 (2012): Academic OneFile. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. McKenchnie, Alex. Drexel and NCPA Study Shows Use of Denies College Athletes Billions in Revenue  N.p., 25 Mar. 2013. Web. 21 Feb. 2017.