Blondino-Pine 1 Sarah Blondino-Pine Professor Campbell English 1102 13 April 2017 Animal Liberation Animals dedicate their lives to pleasing their owners, being a companion they can count on, and loving you unconditionally. They live for our approval and strive to be the best pet they can, so why do humans abuse animals both physically and mentally? We are a superior species and because of that anything inferior to us in some mind become objects that they can take their anger out on. Every form of animal abuse needs to end but that is much harder said than done. There have been animal activists for many years that contribute their time and money to making people aware of how often and serious animal abuse is. However, the abuse still occurs daily which is something that a new type of organization needs to be created for. To put an end to these animals suffering there needs to be collaboration with police officers and the calls that they receive for animal abuse. In doing so, the organization can go with the police to a reported call and rescue the animal(s) while the police do the legal handling of the owner(s). For this to work, I believe that we need to incorporate this organization in each county starting small so in Florida to begin with. The reason I propose to have a building set up in each county is because there are too many abused and abandoned animals in each state to do it take care of it any other way. Also, the non-profit organization H.A.L.O. is a good representation of starting in one county and building from there. The only difference is that their focus is NO KILL safe haven for abused and abandoned which is the type of place we would take the animals after rescuing them (halorescuefl.org). How this would work is that each Blondino-Pine 2 organization set up in the different counties across Florida would coordinate with any no-kill shelter that can take in the animals rescued and get them adopted. Another resource we would coordinate with are the local police because of the instance that someone might get violent or they need to be arrested for the abuse of their animal(s). Teaming up with police will not only give the organization credibility but will also help make a bigger impact on the number of rescues by using the calls they get about abuse. It will also ensure the safety of the rescuer from any potential harm they may face in the process. The organization as a whole is going to take a lot of time, money, and effort but there are so many benefits to it. The main benefit being that it will help to save the lives and happiness of many miserable animals that deserve so much more than the way their owners treat them. Not only will it benefit the animals but it will also benefit the community in a variety of ways. By rescuing the animals that have been uncared for we have the opportunity to give someone else in the community a companion for life. This will also benefit the no-kill shelters that we coordinate with because they will be included in all the advertisements and the website that would be created. As for the police stations that we coordinate with, they will be able to stop and arrest even more people participating in animal cruelty. Which in turn will benefit the Uniform Crime Report data on animal cruelty. adding animal cruelty offenses to NIBRS, law enforcement agencies and the advocacy groups that pushed for the inclusion in the FBI database are hoping the results will reveal a more complete picture of the nature of cruelty to (fbi.gov). It is so important that protection over animals that are helpless to stopping the abuse get the care they need and deserve. century English philosopher Jeremy Bentham had placed animals within his utilitarian calculus of pleasure and pain, stating, Question is not, Blondino-Pine 3 Can they reason? Nor Can they talk? but, Can they said David Walls (Animal Rights Movement). If an animal can feel happiness, stress, enjoyment, and sadness then they have more than the capability to suffer just as much as humans do. With that, the goal of this organization is to help the animals on this planet that feel the same things we do to get out of a toxic environment and rehabilitated into a loving forever home. On top of that, it is to bring awareness to the issue by providing the Uniform Crime Rate with even more data. Which is why this organization will stand by the belief of Animal Legal Defense Fund that animals have be free from exploitation, cruelty, neglect, and (aldf.org). With the help of the police and no-kill shelters the organization will rescue thousands of precious lives. We may not have the capability of lowering animal abuse rates but we do have the capability of rescuing those that are reported and helping them with the transition into a happy home for life. matter what the nature of the being, the principle of equality requires that its suffering be counted equally with the like Peter Singer in the Animal Liberation Movement (Singer, page four). Helping to end the indescribable cruelty that animals all over go through is an incentive for people to come together to give these animals healthier lives and living conditions. Although the organization is not established yet, I am positive that there are people out there willing to help make it happen. Blondino-Pine 4 Works Cited Helping Animals Live and Overcome, Halo Rescue, www.halorescuefl.org/. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. Animal FBI, FBI, 9 Feb. 2017, www.fbi.gov/news/stories/-tracking-animal- cruelty. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. Animal Law Resource Animal Legal Defense Fund, aldf.org/resources/laws- cases/navs-animal-law-resource-center/?gclid=CLbJi6zzvdMCFdQ6gQodgCoJOQ. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Walls, David. Rights Sonoma State University, 9 Nov. 2014, www.sonoma.edu/users/w/wallsd/animal-rights-movement.shtml Singer, Peter. Animal Liberation Nwveg.com, 1985,