1 Sulaiman Salem Mrs. Nancy Carr ENC 1101.004S17 19 February 2017 Mitigating away from non-renewable resources should it happen? Escalating in the world currently are the temperatures across the globe, ranging from deserts to ice caps all being affected. Reasons behind causing this global warming affect differ immensely, usually depending on what side of the argument on, because it can be said that global warming is inevitable and will happen whether we like it or not, whereas the other side of the coin says that happening mainly because of our own contributions and that we should not like it because it presents a possible threat to future generations. The conflict of whether or not we should keep on going with our current way of providing energy to the world is the primary question being presented to those in charge due to all of the direct effects being created and as a result the increase in global acceleration. Therefore, causes of this rise in temperature have been brought to people attention, highlighting its urgency and their ability to affect change within those causes. It has grown within many political scenes and been a key aspect to many politicians campaigns, forcing the world, for example, to go into a treaty with the goal of reaching to a future where we have reduced the gradual increase in global average temperature and adding into account the already existing industries, be able to adapt to the any future hardships when it comes to climate change as well as finally being able to direct 2 the economy and finance flows co-ordinating with the new paths to low greenhouse gas emissions and climate-resilient development with the Paris agreement of December 2016 and projected for aspects of it to take by 2020. Authors of the articles that i have read and studies state that solutions are out there, however they also highlight that everyone needs to be a contributor and not just a spectator waiting for something to happen. Some of these solutions are still within early stages and may need backup/reinforcement to help with and be the primary support system to them, because otherwise solutions will fail. Even if someone may come up with a very good solution to this problem, people will not recognize its source, hence, they will not see him as a viable solution with credible information therefore choosing not to acknowledge the solution on the basis that they know if a good solution or not and that they know if the person that came up with it is credible or not, so they will fail. why government plays a menacing role within solutions sussing out the good idea from the bad, lending financial aid when needed for development and various other aspects within a reach as well as something as simple as their sponsorship, because for example if someone were to see that a solution has been approved by a certain government agency that would add much more credibility to it and gain much more attention. Even with all of this being addressed and if it were to be approved and endorsed by governments the fact remains that these governments need to invest into these the solutions because in my opinion one solution will not solve this for the whole world as the solutions are not size fit Human and physical factors may affect each region of the world differently, and although they may be similarities between solutions, governments need to 3 realize that they need to extract what is beneficial to them and discard of any other procedures that may not be used by them as part of their solution. Annotated Bibliography Asafu-Adjaye, J., Byrne, D., & Alvarez, M. (2016). Economic growth, fossil fuel and non-fossil consumption: A Pooled Mean Group analysis using proxies for capital. doi:10.1016/j.eneco.2016.10.016 The authors are basically reporting on the period between 1990-2012 discussing 53 countries and their reliance on the natural resources as a source of energy and showing that the developing countries contribute the greatest due to their development including the such processes as industrialization which is one of the leading contributors, as a process, to global warming. They then highlight that the level of economic growth at which a certain country is at will influence that countries investment into new and other sources of energy or their relinquishment of those responsibilities to global warming and matters of climate change with regards to the sources of energy. With regards to the connection to my discussion it has a certain link to the economy and financing which would help me prove a point of our dependence on the current energy sources and the lay out of certain countries having these sources of energy already embedded within the infrastructure and diverging from that process may turn out to be a very difficult for certain countries specifically those that are closer towards the side lesser developed countries. 4 Kamseu, E., Beleuk Moungam, L., Cannio, M., Billong, N., Chaysuwan, D., Melo, U. C., & Leonelli, C. (2017). Substitution of sodium silicate with rice husk ash-NaOH solution in metakaolin based geopolymer cement concerning reduction in global warming. Of Cleaner 4), 3050-3060. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.10.164 The authors of this piece specifically describing one way of reducing the global warming effect created by the geopolymers and their production. By replacing a certain material with a new and updated material that will significantly reduce the CO2 emissions by its power to absorb a greater percentage of CO2 than the older version. I wanted to show that there are available solutions and would help me prove a point that we slowly need to slide into a newer way of conducting our industry and consumption of existing energy sources. Kamseu, Beleuk a moungam, Cannio, Billong, Chaysuwan, Melo and Leonelli express that this is at a small scale and the investment is needed to create a larger scale rendition of this project. Kikuchi, Y., Kanematsu, Y., Sato, R., & Nakagaki, T. (2016). Distributed Cogeneration of Power and Heat within an Energy Management Strategy for Mitigating Fossil Fuel Consumption. Of Industrial (2), 289. doi:10.1111/jiec.12374 In this article the authors articulate the way in which shifting away from fossil fuels 5 would be a much easier process and show a gradual decline in relying on fossil fuel energy and more towards renewable sources by way of management and planning alternative routes using energy efficiency and sustainability to ease the population over to the renewable energy side. Banerjee, A., & Solomon, B. D. (2003). Eco-labeling for energy efficiency and sustainability: a meta-evaluation of US programs. (2), 109. Authors Banerjee, A., and Solomon, B.D., talk about a energy efficiency and sustainability labelling and how the acknowledgement and sponsorship of a certain product has a much larger effect on customers than those of the private programs that also are labeling the energy efficiency and sustainability of products. With this article I wanted to show that authorities and the help of people in charge is a very large part and can influence a large majority of people just by overseeing a development or by expediting process. Campbell, C. J. (2008). The Oil Depletion Protocol: A Response to Peak Oil. 60-62. doi:10.1080/14747730701587439 The authors here talk about the oil reserves left, now that oil production has reached its peak and is now headed for downfall from here on out. Highlighting where we are headed if we 6 were not to slow down, basically acting as a cautionary article. They also bring into the spotlight the fact that the discovery of new oil reserves has been in a decline for the past 40 years, meaning that this is what we have left. That the first half of the age of oil has come to an end. Talking about the role of oil companies and OPEC (Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries) Countries have in providing the necessary information to the public rather than providing various other information that may not be relevant. They stated that we have to first to do so, provide the necessary information to the public, and follow that by raising awareness to the fact that we need to improve efficiency and avoid waste when it comes to the consumption of energy whether it be fuel for the car or the lights at home. To cap that off the authors expressed the need of the transition to renewable energy resources so that we may move forward in the direction of progress in the future and not remain stagnant. Haider, M. B., Hussain, Z., & Kumar, R. (2016). CO2 absorption and kinetic study in ionic liquid amine blends. Of Molecular A), 1025-1031. doi:10.1016/j.molliq.2016.10.044 The authors of this article specifically talk about their experiment to find out which of their ionic liquid amine blends has the greater tendency to absorb Carbon Dioxide (CO2) therefore coming up with the one that will have the greater effect if so for this moment on the atmospheric carbon dioxide if intended in the near future to provide such chemicals as the basis to a solution. 7 To my future argument in favour of moving towards renewable sources I see that this article will help by being one of the solutions that may exist to lessen the blow and load onto the future generation and just momentarily help in being a temporary solution for decreasing the carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere until we are able to find a better solution of lowering the carbon dioxide emissions whilst transitioning to renewable sources of energy.