Hathaway 1 Michelle Hathaway Ms. Hannah Lay ENC 1102:047 3 May 2017 Free Range Meats There are many different labels that are on the meat packages you buy at the grocery store. Does anyone ever really look at those labels? The label I want to bring some light to is According to the United States Department of Agriculture free range is defined as, must demonstrate to the Agency that the poultry has been allowed access to the This definition has gotten some bad press due to the fact it does not have any real requirements. Because of this the Humane Farm Animal Care also known as the HFAC stepped in to give more of a proper definition of requirements that must be followed to be considered the free range and get the humane certification. This is the statement said by the HFAC on this Free Range requirement is 2 sq. ft. per bird. The hens must be outdoors, weather permitting (in some areas of the country, seasonal), and when they are outdoors they must be outdoors for at least 6 hours per Free  and Pasture  officially defined by HFAC for Certified ). So in normal words, the difference between free range meats and non-free range meats is how the animal is treated before they are killed for consumption. When the labeling on a chicken, for example, does not say free range, here is a snapshot of what they go through. Imagine being on the ground floor in a concert there are hundreds of people pushing and pulling only to get closer to the stage to the point where you cannot move. Every which way you look all you see is more people and it becomes apparent to some people that they feel suffocated and to Hathaway 2 where it is physically impossible to sit down or even lift your arms because you are so packed in with all of these people. This is how packed in the chickens get into those pens to the point where the chickens start losing their feathers and have huge blisters from the constant rubbing of other chickens. It gets to the point where some chickens start attacking others and create sometimes deadly injuries to others so they can get some sort of space. Compared to the free range chicken where it is a requirement that each chicken has 2 sq. ft. of space for each body in the pen. As well as free range chickens based on weather have a requirement to have at least six hours of outside time a day. Non-free range chickens are stuck in that claustrophobic environment until they are killed with no hope of even seeing the sunlight. People buy free range because of the underlining fact that this helps either in preventing guilt of helping other people abuse animals or just that they do not want the food they are eating to be abused beforehand. People that do not buy free range might not know what it is or they do not believe there is an actual difference between being free range and not. A fact stated by the International Veterinary Information Service is Broken bones are also common among these birds, who suffer significant Poultry and Eggs: Industries That Abuse ). When said these birds those are the chickens that are not free ranged. Osteoporosis defined by the National Osteoporosis Foundation a bone disease that occurs when the body loses too much bone, makes too little bone, or both. As a result, bones become weak and may break from a fall or, in serious cases, from sneezing or minor What is Osteoporosis and What Causes ). So as a fact chickens that are stuck in these hen houses with hundreds of other chickens come out with feather loss, huge blisters, and crippled feet. So hopefully this is enough factual information to show that there is a big difference between free range and not. So the people that are buying free range for whatever the reason, guilt or just not wanting to help Hathaway 3 society not abuse these animals their reasons have some standing behind them. There are many different types of slaughterhouses some that certified free range and some that are not. An example of a certified free range slaughter house is Hidden Villa Ranch. Hidden Villas mission statement is, grow these businesses as a team, to have fun, to make money, and to do the right Mission ). This is just one of the many companies that agree with the fact that being certified humane and free-range actually matters. A little over 16 million people in the United State of America eat absolutely no animal products. As well as, 42% of those who do not eat animal products say that they went vegan after they saw an educational film. Sixty-nine percent said they chose to eat a vegan diet to support the ethical treatment of 16 Million People in the US are Now Vegan or ). I am not saying you have to go vegan or vegetarian to help support the treatment of animals like these people. I understand that meat is a huge part of many daily diets and lives. I would instead like to offer a compromise that you can support non-animal cruelty and still be able to eat meat. The way to start this is by buying free range labeled meats. The results of this mean that more money would be going to these companies that care for animal rights and less money would go to the industries that could only care about making money and not how they treat the animals they are using to make that money. Now that you are fully educated on the differences between the little labels that say free range and the ones that have those labels. You can now fully make the conscious decision to buy the free range product knowing that you are helping stop animal cruelty in the slaughter house industry one purchase at a time. Hathaway 4 Works Cited 16 Million People in the US are Now Vegan or  The Raw Food World News. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Free  and Pasture  officially defined by HFAC for Certified  Certified Humane. N.p., 09 Oct. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.  Meat and Poultry Labeling Terms. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Mission  Hidden Villa Ranch. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Poultry and Eggs: Industries That Abuse  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. What is Osteoporosis and What Causes  National Osteoporosis Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.