Koch 1 John Koch Professor Jared Fennell ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The Gun Question In the United States of America, we have certain inalienable rights that are protected by the constitution. One of these amendments, specifically the second, protects our right to bear arms. While this is a right that cannot be construed by the government, there is currently a heated argument on what exactly this amendment means, and what weapons are protected under it. Because of this, there have been many organizations formed to lobby their arguments, whether it be to ban weapons or to keep them unrestricted as possible to the public. However, considering recent tragedies, such as the 2016 Orlando Nightclub Shooting, there has been one type of weapon that has received the spotlight: assault weapons. By definition, an assault weapon is, of various automatic or semiautomatic (Mariam Webster, 2015). This should not be confused with an assault rifle, which per Mariam Webster (2015), is, of various intermediate range, magazine fed military rifles that can be set for automatic or semiautomatic Basically, an assault rifle has the capability for fully automatic fire. I make this distinction because assault rifles are already heavily regulated requiring extensive training and licenses to obtain. On the other hand, assault weapons are not. The fact that they are relatively unregulated has become a heated topic, especially between these two organizations: The National Rifle Association(NRA) and the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. By providing these two stakeholders, I hope that my audience can Koch 2 see that no matter the view, they have somewhere they can go to let their voice be heard, that the efforts undertaken are not for nothing. We have been able to make reasonable gun legislation in the past, so why would today be any different. To begin with, we will explore the perspective of the first organization involved, the National Rifle Association(NRA). The NRA was created in 1871, by Union veterans Col. William C. Church and Gen. George Wingate (N., 2012). Its original intent, per the N. (2012), was to and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific And throughout the years, the NRA has grown to encompass a variety of roles, from lobbying for the rights of all types of weapons and their owners, to operating gun ranges and gun safety classes. The NRA considers itself the number one defender of the second amendment, and for good reason. They are strongly against any anti-gun bill, and even provide legal service to those who feel their rights as gun owners have been violated. This makes the NRA very influential, and combined with their influence in politics, and tens of millions of dollars, makes them one of the most powerful lobbyist in the United States of America (Sugarmann, 1992). This organization has rarely compromised with any pro-gun control group, strictly defending all aspects of the second amendment. On the other side of the argument, we have the pro-gun control organization, The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence(CSGV). The CSGV was created in 1974, centered around reducing violence by firearms. Per Cheek (2013), [The seek to secure freedom from gun violence through research, strategic engagement and effective policy As seen by this statement, the CSGV lobbies for gun control bills, and just like the National Rifle Association, uses money and power in politics to influence. The CSGV was a major supporter of the 1994 Assault Weapons Ban, and heavily criticized the fact that the bill was not renewed. Thus, the group lobbies to reinstate the bill, hoping it will reduce the number of mass shootings in the United States each Koch 3 year. Another topic of interest for the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence is that of universal background checks. They believe that by implementing these key points, gun crime could be reduced by nearly half. Now, with both organizations stated, you will now see that your opinion can have backing, and that you have a voice in the matter. This issue of gun control is not just an isolated issue, but one that has the possibility to affect every American in the United States. Therefore, not just some, but every citizen must take a stake in this issue, for the effects of remaining ignorant could be devastating. Even if one care about the issue, that person could be the victim of a gun related crime, for the cause of minding their own business. However, that same person could also be saved by a good Samaritan with a weapon, which would have been impossible otherwise with a ban. By providing these two organizations, I hope to empower my audience to let their voice be heard, and see that this is not just an issue that affects those involved, but every man, woman, and child in this country. To conclude, gun control has always been a heated topic in the United States of America, and in light of recent tragedies, that of assault weapons. This is why every citizen must take a stake and interest in this issue, for it is one that affects everyone. Two distinct sides of the argument have formed, being those for increased gun control, and those against it. Two organizations that have emerged as the faces for their sides have been the National Rifle Organization(NRA) and the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. With these organizations, my audience can use them to allow their voice to be heard, and to see that they too can make a difference. One step at a time, you too can help change this country, but that requires you to step up now, and use these organizations to fight for your cause. Koch 4 Works Cited Cheek, B. About  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. CSGV, 5 Aug. 2013. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Schatz, B. (2016). Outgunned and outmanned. Mother Jones,41(5), 5-7. Webster, Merriam. Assault  Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, 5 Mar. 2015. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. N. (2012, May 3). NRA Explore. Retrieved January 31, 2017, from https://home.nra.org/about- the-nra/ Sugarmann, J. (1992). National Rifle Association: money, firepower & fear. Wash., D.C.: National Press Books.