Edouard 1 Carlie Edouard Mr. Fennell ENC 1102 039 22, April 2017 Give The Meat, Dairy, and Egg Industries No Reason to Stay in Business The meat, dairy, and egg industry works hard to convince consumers that it is a good idea to consume animals and animal byproducts. The meat, dairy, and egg industries also try to keep the American people unaware of the repercussions of deciding to purchase their products and disconnect from the production process of their going from a living, breathing, sentient being to a dead, lifeless, object that is supposed to be a healthy and nutritious meal. The meat, dairy, and egg industry aim to spend the least amount of money while maximizing the amount of profits made from their business. Those two things put together makes for some terrible conditions for the animals. The meat industry injects their animals with substances that will cause their bodies to grow abnormally fast and big. The animals never adapt to these physical conditions and many of them die that way. If animals survive, they must endure the unsanitary state of the slaughterhouse. The tight quarters pack an unseemly number of animals that are all dirty, tired, and unfed. Pigs get their genitals and tails cut off as a piglet to reduce cannibalism or fighting when squeezed together in tight places. Cows get their tails cut and horns burned off with an iron that was heated over a fire and placed on their horns until they get very low Cows Used for ). This is supposed to also reduce fighting. Pigs get very dehydrated and foam at the mouth before arriving to the slaughterhouse while on the delivery trucks. Edouard 2 The dairy industry is just as ruthless. The dairy farmers impregnate mother cow by attaching bull sperm to a rod and with a pair of gloves and a rod. To impregnate the mother cows, the rod is entered from her backside to her reproductive organ Cows Used for ). After nine long months the mother then gives birth to a beautiful 90 lbs. calf. However, in order to decrease the natural bonding effect of the mother and calf, the calf is immediately ripped away from the hold after birth Cows Used for ). This is an extremely cruel practice because in nature, hormones such as oxytocin, adrenaline, prolactin, and endorphins are secreted during birth to help the mother and the baby bond and these profit hungry humans (dairy farmers) feel the need to disturb that natural process for their gain. The mothers cry out for days as they are left with milk-filled utters that will not go towards feeding their own but rather another species. The dairy farmers eventually sell the baby boys to the veal industry to be killed for meat and the girls get to get raised up to be just like their mothers Cows Used for ). The egg industry raises up abnormally sized chickens who have bodies bigger than their legs which makes their legs weak and useless because they constantly fall over Factory Farming: Misery for .) The baby chicks get debeaked to avoid fighting while in tight places. They are squeezed in tight places filled with their own feces and they never get to use their wings Factory Farming: Misery for ). The egg farmers also manipulate the temperature of the room for egg laying hens to maximize the amount of eggs the hens produce. The egg industry has professionals who can pick out the gender of baby chicks. The baby chicks go down the conveyer line and they get tossed left and right. The girls go the next line and move to go to another factory while the male chicks get tossed alive in grinders. The egg industry found that that was the most efficient methods because suffocating them in trash bags took too long. In a way, it is not all of the of the fault because it is the consumers that demand Edouard 3 meat, dairy, and eggs, and they are just suppliers who are desperately trying to meet that demand. If people really want to stop these cruel and malicious practices, they have to back up their feelings with action by at least attempting to go vegan/vegetarian. Give the industries no reason to continue manufacturing their products by boycotting them and going for a healthier plant- based alternative. To many people, going vegan or vegetarian seems like the most restrictive thing a person could ever voluntarily choose to do. What many people do not know is that going vegan/vegetarian is not as restrictive as they think it is. Avoiding certain foods, especially meat, which is usually described as delicious, satiating, and satisfying takes discipline and internal motivation. Many people do not just go vegan for no reason. There usually is a bigger reason for taking such drastic measures. The main reasons for going vegan include helping the environment, saving the lives of animals, and trying to preserve or salvage health. However, both the health and the environment route has a back exit door. Meaning that they are not strong enough to withstand the temptations of wanting to eat meat. If one is vegan for their health, at one point, they will have reached their health goals and would see no harm in incorporating meat in their diet once again. Same goes for someone going vegan for the environment, every once in a while they would not think twice about eating meat because in their eyes, by being vegan for a while, they would have done more for this planet than any would in their entire life from eating meat and using less water or plastics. The longest lasting motive for going vegan would have to go to being ethical vegan due to the fact that one cannot simply stop being vegan temporarily and eat meat because doing so would go against everything they believed in. If a person goes vegan because they decided that they do not want to take part in the torturing, mistreating, and slaughtering of animals, there is no Edouard 4 room for them to later on step back and totally contradict what it is they believe. Unless the person wants to be hypocritical and pay people do to the animals what they once spoke out against them not to do, then that is their decision. Otherwise, there are no accidents. If a person eats meat ever again after intentionally going vegan for the animals, it usually means that they made a sober, conscious and deliberate decision to do so. It is not very often that this happens but when it does, the online vegan community definitely gets a hold of that information. For example, youtubers The HodgeTwins were the stereotypical bodybuilder type of guys so essentially lived at the gym. They were all about gains and protein. Animal protein that is. They were so distant and disconnected from what was on their plates that many found it a surprise that they went vegetarian in 2016. They announced to their channel that they were just trying it out for 60 days and not really committing for life or anything. While they were vegetarian, they proclaimed that they watched many slaughterhouse videos and got educated on what really goes on behind closed doors in slaughterhouses. They were so passionate and moved that many of their subscribers began to think that they would go vegan. The amazing thing is they did. They found that consuming dairy products and eggs were just as bad, and if not, worse than eating meat or fish. They even went as far as educating their predominantly non-vegan audience on why going vegan is a must. They informed them on many of the physical changes they experienced right away from integrating a vegan diet into their lifestyle. They assured that their gains were still intact, they informed that they were much less constipated due to the increase in fiber in their diet, they cured their erectile dysfunction due to the increased blood flow via lower cholesterol levels, and they found that they obtained higher energy levels. The online vegan community embraced them and their story and used them as an example of how easy and practical the vegan lifestyle was. However, things took a turn on the 60 th day of them Edouard 5 going vegan. Fans thought for sure that there was no way the HodgeTwins would go back to eating meat because of all the benefits and the new perspective, but they proved the fans wrong and uploaded a video of them announcing their return to eating meat and their newfound respect for vegans and vegetarians alike. Many people believed that their decision to go back to eating meat was fueled by the drop in YouTube views while they were vegan. If that is the case, the HodgeTwins proved that their $3.7 million net worth was not something they would tamper with even if it cost the lives of millions of animals Most people who go ethical vegan usually stand by that and are likely to stay vegan for life because for them it is not just a diet change, it is a way of living, a lifestyle. Some benefits of this lifestyle include lower risk for cardiovascular disease, a decrease in cholesterol levels and blood pressure (Craig, Wiston). They find many plant-based alternatives to substitute for their favorite dishes and meals that may have contained meat and it works. There are many options for someone who is newly vegan and still wants to enjoy the plant-based version of their old favorite meal. Combine a plant-based diet with exercise and naturally one will have lower heart disease, diabetes, and stroke risk (Greger, Michael). Edouard 6 Works Cited Cows Used for  PETA. PETA.org People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, n.d. Web. 22 Apr. 2017. Craig, Winston J. Health effects of vegan  The American journal of clinical nutrition 89.5 (2009): 1627S-1633S. Factory Farming: Misery for  PETA. PETA.org People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, n.d. Web. 22 Apr. 2017. Greger, Michael. How Not to Die from  NutritionFacts.org. Michael Greger, 3 Oct. 2016. Web. 23 Apr. 2017.  Net Worth. The-Net-Worth.org, n.d. Web. 22 Apr. 2017.