Mical 1 Miroslaw Mical Professor Mark Nusspickel ENC 1011 April 10, 2017 Make Europe Great Again I. Introduction A. Thesis; European immigration needs to be limited to help stabilize the current civil unrest. II. The current migration lets in much needed labor for the stagnant European economies, and let in refuges from the Middle East crisis. A. It is not humanitarian, economically the native European country and the immigrant both gain benefits from an economic standpoint. (Add statistics) B. While beneficial, the rising resentment of immigrants in Europe does not help the current clash of cultures that is exponentially growing violent. Since Europe stagnant economies going anywhere soon, it would be beneficial to quell constant conflict of the immigrants and natives first. III. Constant threat from terrorism A. Due to the real threat of terrorism i.e. Parris, Bruxsells, limiting the borders of closing them in order to find a more permanent solution. (Should they star source) B. The cost of lives far outweigh the benefits of open borders without regulation. C. What is the point in having a growing and powerful economy, when the population fears for its life. (Add in quotes from the ECU European survey analysis source. 2 Mical 2 IV. Benefits from closing borders A. The benefits of closing a border and establishing a clear and concise parameters for immigration would benefit Europe in the long run, knowing who and how many people is Europe accepting. B. Knowing with extensive background checks and not letting turkey be an inlet for undocumented EU citizens would far greater benefit Europe knowing who they are bringing into their countries. C. Instead of letting in known terrorist soldiers seen from previous years, and not knowing they are the ones coming into your country is detrimental so the security of Europe. VI. Conclusion: A. For the security and wellbeing of Europe, it would help Europe to close down borders for a short time in order to establish a strict immigration policy that extensively checks who is coming into a country. B. Restate thesis statement. C. refer to A Mical 3 In modern and civilized society, terrorist attacks in Europe are now becoming a common occurrence, each month has its own separate attack. Yet, no significant action has been taken by the European Union (EU) to safeguard the future of Europe. Their negligence is causing some of their most influential members to take action in order to break away from the EU. The issue is that countries closest to the Middle East lack an appropriate system for vetting refugees or immigrants without any type of background checks in order to identify who they are inviting into Europe. Immigrants from North Africa and Middle East have vast cultural differences from Europe, which is causing a lot of conflict in the form of riots and terrorist attacks. Therefore European countries need to take action to limit and control outside immigration in order to stabilize the current civil unrest between the immigrants and Europeans. The current mass immigrations coming into European countries provide new, cheap, and alternative labor force. The cheap labor largely benefits the industrious nations such as Germany, Russia, United Kingdom, and many others. Many economists argue on the how beneficial the cheap labor is to the country and the people. The study by Laura Zanfrini shows short-term benefits of cheap labor against long-term, and the problem in the long-term future is that the tend not to from contribution to long term 27). The Guest Worker program allows foreign workers to temporarily reside and work in a host country, but limits the citizenship of the migrants leaving a political, economic, and societal split between the contributions of migrants and the natives as the immigrants have no representation on the political spectrum. The current civil unrest is located within western and central Europe and in many forms such as riots in Sweden, littered streets of Paris, and sexual harassments in Germany. The tensions are flaring on both sides because each society has different goals. The rise of conflict Mical 4 will only continue as parties have tripled since (Trioanovsky 2017). With more people opposed to the Middle Eastern immigration, many European groups are pushing for immigrants to start returning to their birth place. Many citizens have started to vilify their political leaders for their inactiveness to halt the riots and violence, specifically: Chancellor Angela Merkel from Germany, David Cameron from United Kingdom, and Frederick Reinfeldt from Sweden, who were booed off stage after their public speeches. The anger of the native Europeans is increasing toward their leaders as more terrorist attacks occur each month. The extreme cases of these terrorist attacks have happened recently in Paris, Sweden, Germany, Brussels, and other smaller incursions which ended in senselessly that could have possibly been prevented (Batchelor 2016). The housing problem is another dominant reason of resentment in Europe. Shelters are rapidly filling up with immigrants causing governments to find shelter elsewhere, and in this case the citizens are paying the price. Governments have been forcing citizens to leave their homes in order to house immigrants. Extreme cases include a 51-year old German nurse receiving an eviction letter notifying her that her house was a turned into a refugee (Huggler 2015). These types of cases have been appearing across countries who take in the most refugees primarily Sweden and Germany (Mohdin 2016). Situations like these have been worsening the relationship with the native citizens because of this injustice. The growing disputes are resulting violent and deadly incidences. The restriction of borders and temporarily stopping all immigration in Europe from the Middle East and Africa could buy time for the EU to set up a proper vetting system for refugees. At the moment, the system allows most of the immigrants to travel to Turkey, an EU country since 2003, and that easily grants EU citizenship. After receiving this passport any person can Mical 5 freely travel to any other EU country making Turkey an uncontrolled gateway for immigrants. The uncontrolled waves of immigrants with freshly granted EU citizenship quickly floods Western Europe. Instead of stopping or controlling the process the EU and notably Angela Merkel are pushing for resettlement of the immigrants. Angela Merkel has pushed the EU to enforce the resettlement of refugees sheltered in Greece and to other European countries (New York Times 2015). Other European countries have started to disregard the resettlement policies. Poland, Scandinavia, Macedonia, Croatia, and other Balkan countries have permanently closed their borders to refugees (Kingsley 2016). The complication is not in the European countries but in the character of the refugees entering their countries. Since, current terrorist organizations such as ISIS send sleeper cells into Europe via the refuge routes, allowing in a general and of his most trusted disguised as refugees (Wood 2017). This leads to the discussion whether Europe should close its borders to protect its own citizens or choose to host the refugees with the risk of letting in terrorists. The EU and its members must take the initiative to help its own citizens by regulating their borders and instituting a program for helpful and useful refuges with an extensive background check. All the countries should put their citizens first and respect them by not giving away their property or for the sake of immigrants. The citizens pay taxes, work hard, and have a natural right to be safe in their own land. While refugees may offer short-term economic stabilization terrorists will use their plight as an opportunity. The extensive background checks are just the beginning to help separate the immigrants from the extremists, other options include assimilation programs. Having the immigrants assimilate into the European lifestyle would help the natives getting used to the immigrants. However, with the current situation in the heart of the Europe will lead to the dissolving of the EU, as more countries other Mical 6 than United Kingdom are taking measures to leave the EU. France will most likely be the next country to vote for a referendum and start anew. There is a chance for European countries to become stable and prospering again but it includes tough decisions and prioritizing their own citizens, after all its the Mical 7 Works Cited Batchelor, Tom. Terror in Europe MAPPED - Shocking Number of Deaths and Injuries from Attacks in  Express.co.uk. Express.co.uk, 27 July 2016. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Huggler, Justin. German Woman Threatened with Eviction to Make Way for  The Telegraph. Telegraph Media Group, 25 Sept. 2015. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Kingsley, Patrick. Balkan Countries Shut Borders as Attention Turns to New Refugee  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 09 Mar. 2016. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Mohdin, Aamna. The Most Refugee-friendly Country in Europe Is Growing  Quartz. Quartz, 06 Sept. 2016. Web. 10 Apr. 2017 Times, New York. EU Plan Forcing Nations to Take in Immigrants  San Antonio Express-News. N.p., 14 Sept. 2015. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Trioanovsky, Anton. Anti-Immigration Parties See Opening to Weaken EU  Wall Street Journal (2017): n. pag. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Wood, L. Todd. ISIS General: 400 Soldiers Disguised as Refugees Return to  The Washington Times. The Washington Times, 03 Jan. 2017. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Zanfrini, Laura. How Europe Can Benefit from Immigration-Related  Social Science Research 2009th ser. 23.3 (2009): 23-32. Web. 10 Apr. 2017.