Byerly 1 Kelsey Byerly Ms. Campbell ENC 1102.097 April 18, 2017 No More Common Core The stress that students encounter at a very young age because of standardized testing is a recent occurrence that is on the rise. The shift of standardized testing occurred in 2009 when Common Core State Standards was mandated by forty-five states. The measurement of student achievement has changed to more technical and conceptual criteria that does not acknowledge the holistic aspects of learning valued by colleges and the workforce (Wright and Endacott). According to Robert Rothman, a senior associate at the National Alliance for Reconstructing Education, standards represent a compact between the states and their (Toscano 411). It is this compact that is causing a disconnect between school districts because there is an overabundance of teaching methods in an effort to define what the curriculum should be composed of. If there is not a precise protocol for teachers to follow, students will ultimately feel the effects of an inadequate primary education. The Common Core State Standards have obstructed the education system by imposing standards without curriculum. Furthermore, this lack of guidance has led to increased stress levels as well as unnecessary pressure on young students, K-12, to score high on standardized tests. It is the responsibility of the community to push for the removal of Common Core by developing an alternative curriculum that will accurately test the information taught, which will decrease the level of difficulty and stress placed on students. Byerly 2 The standards emerged from an alliance of private and federal interests as well as the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. The adoption of the initiative turned into a competition, known as Race to the Top, for funds from the $4.35 billion dollars of President American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The goal of the competitive grant is to motivate and reward innovation and reforms in state and local district K-12 education The incentive in the form of extrinsic motivation, or motivation that is not rewarding itself but leads to a reward, undermines the intrinsic reward, or individual satisfaction felt by a school when students score high on standardized tests. In order to receive the monetary reward, states must administer the standardized tests to assess if students are and The states that attain the highest scores receive the monetary reward. The increased rigor and strain on students is not considered; students are used as pawns for states to gain access to a monetary reward that in turn fund even more standardized testing and not address curriculum development. In 2009, the National Governors Association quietly implemented the Common Core State Standards Initiative without hesitation. The association consists of two governors from each state that focus on regulating public policy for the state in which they represent. The federal government cannot mandate the adoption of CCSS, therefore it is acknowledged at a state-by- state level. The adoption of the standards by forty-five states was so discrete, that according to a poll conducted in 2012 by Achieve Inc., an organization devoted to improving standard setting and testing, percent of the voters knew or about Common (Toscano 412). Before the implementation, standards were and as claimed by Indiana state senator Scott Schneider (Toscano 412). As the standards have increasingly gained popularity, the support for Common Core has reached a point where supporters no longer outnumber opponents (Peterson 10). Byerly 3 The long-term effects of the adoption will reveal themselves in the following years, but the immediate effects have already impacted the education system. Common Core is simply a set of standards that require students to learn less content, but know it more in-depth; it is not a curriculum. The development of learning processes is left to the school districts to decide upon, with the aid of state bureaucracies. As each school district formulates a curriculum in response to their interpretation of the standards, a learning gap will appear across all districts. It is unfair to students across the nation to receive different levels of education, placing some at a disadvantage come time to take the standardized test. Moreover, it is not the fault of the teachers if students are not prepared because teachers are undergoing a trial and error process to identify what needs to be taught in order for students to score well on the tests. The learning gap will lead to an unreliable comparison of test results, as each student body develops an individual understanding of the standards. For example, a study demonstrated the disconnect by allowing two teachers to use different sources to engage students in a written argument. The different approaches to evidence-based writing led to significant differences in the quality of the essays (Wright and Endacott). The standards are designed around the mold of a single child; they do not adhere to individual learning styles. The individuality of students is what the nation should be celebrating and not dismissing. Students desire to expand their minds and engage with the curriculum not only to compete with other students but to gain a personal understanding. They do not want to spend eight hours a day five days a week preparing for a standardized test that is not applicable to and Students want to experience learning in its entirety through creativity, innovation, and at pace that allows for full and complete submersion into the material. Byerly 4 The expectations of student achievement should be high and similar across the nation and the curricula should be well-developed before standards and assessments are drawn up. If school districts persist to overstress the importance of standardized testing, the learning gap will continue to increase. It is imperative that members of the community come forth with experience in the education system, differing thoughts, unique perspectives, and open-mindedness to consider various reconstruction ideas. Concerned parents and citizens have already started to band together to fight Common Core. Opponents of the standards are working to ensure students receive the quality education they deserve, pushing for the recognition of individual and developmental needs It is time to demand for major educational reform and allow it to be discussed openly by the public before approval and implementation. The frustration felt by adversaries can be summed up in a single claim made by a parent, Core is nothing more than a headache, a virus to self-esteem, and a complete waste of time. It is hurting our kids, their education, and their Removing Common Core will allow the states to set education standards and determine how funds are spent. Only then will needs be met and educational opportunity will flourish Parents and taxpayers should have the right to propose what children should be learning in the classroom; after all, it is the hard earned money the government is spending. As rudimentary as it may seem, communities must come together to advocate for alternative education programs. Bringing awareness and sharing information about the injustice of Common Core is vital for reconstruction. Currently, forty-two states use Common Core, which means seven states are using alternative measurements of student achievement. A professor at the University of Arkansas has suggested that states who wish to abandon Common Byerly 5 Core steering committees that include university-level content-matter experts, allow for a public comment period, include feedback from teachers and provide for an external review of the new Ohio is currently undergoing this radical adjustment and the implementation of their own methods through participation of parents and teachers, which is proving to have positive effects. Likewise, the National Education Association claims, Core implementation plans must be collaboratively include voices of students, parents and Why so Many People Hate the Common ). This is a call to action for parents, community members, and citizens to invest all efforts to put a stop to Common Core until all means are exhausted. The long-term effects are soon to show and the government will have no choice but to find an alternative method to measure student achievement. Common Core State Standards have taken advantage of the education system by imposing standards without curriculum. The lack of guidance has led to an increased stress on young students, K-12, to score well on standardized tests. It is the responsibility of the community to collaborate and establish an innovative means of measuring student achievement. Byerly 6 Works Cited Burke, Lindsey Ohio Could Be Next State to Buck Common  The Daily Signal. 05 Aug. 2014. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. http://dailysignal.com/2014/08/06/ohio-next-state-buck- Fighting to Stop the Common Core State Standards, Their Assessments and Student Data  Truth in American Education. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. https://truthinamericaneducation.com Jackson, Abby. Why so Many People Hate the Common  Business Insider. Business Insider, 05 Mar. 2015. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. http://www.businessinsider.com/heres-why-so-many-people-hate-the-common-core- 2015-3 Peterson, Paul E. et al. Common Core Brand Taints Opinion on Standards. (Cover  Education Next, vol. 17, no. 1, Winter2017, pp. 8-17. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login? Toscano, Michael. The Common Core: Far from  Academic Questions, no. 4, 2013, p. 411. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/sl2129-013-9389-9. Williams, Lindsay. Barack Obama: Remove Common Core Standards From Our  Change.org. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. https://www.change.org/p/barack-obama-remove- common-core-standards-from-our-schools Wright, Ginney and Jason Endacott Historical Inquiry and the Limitations of the Common Core State  Journal of Social Studies Research, vol. 40, no. 4, Oct. 2016, pp. 309- 324. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jssr.2015.07.003.