ALSHAMSI 1 Rashed Alshamsi Instructor Nancy Carr ENC1101 30 of April 2017 Development of Computers I believe computers were confined to a specific area of life that was business. Lately, with the emerging new technology and the needs of humans drive this technology in other dimensions of human life. Positivity can be seen in the passion of humans to do all of these developments. The project will study the development of computer in the light of history and analyze how these technological advancements spread to society and there is a great chance that with the same rate of evolution, the negativity related to use might be prevailing in this field will further spread. This is the time to think and do something about this. Starting from the start of human history, as everything was started when the humans initiated their residence on this planet. Communication is a need of humans. By visiting the old writings in the caves of various countries, we know for a fact that humans communicate with each other through signs. Signs were the initial form of communication between human beings. This is what makes them different from the animals. This need compels humans to find new ways of communication. Deep inside the Oxocelhaya cave in southern France, Canadian anthropologist Genevieve von Petzinger points at a small red marking barely noticeable on a rock wall. They describe it as looks like someone deliberately drew an X using two inverted The faint sign is partly covered with calcite, evidence it was traced a very long time The question remains that how long this writing was there. Answer to this question is critical to understand the reason of making computers in contemporary modern world. ALSHAMSI 2 According to experts, the writings found in cave were written since the ice age, almost 10,000 to 40,000 years from now. This was amazing discovery. These signs not only reveled a weird old language but the art of old times was also discovered through these writings. In world, most of us do our art work by using Apple products and those arts were the writings of our predecessors, this proves a strong link between rock age and world. This is how the humans evolve. Remember, the first computer was invented in 1948 by a human to save the work for a long time and to resolve the problems that humans cannot solve with spoken language. Invention of computer was a milestone in sending the messages to a long distance. Now, count the similarities between that rock age transmission of messages and current world communication. These technologies we are using today have a slightly mark, the same needs were the motivation of first humans to start the system of communication. The writing in caves evolve to a level where we sit and type all the words on our computers. La Pasiega cave in the north of Spain have the similar marks. According to archeologists these marks are random at first but these are not really random marks. These are some writings. according to von Petzinger certainly not writing yet at this point but writing come out of a The reason for discussing all of this cave concept is to relate the growth of technology with rock age time. simple, those times were not technologically ahead but needs of humans were same but their way of communication had no harms and no such negative aspects that they had to keep in the view while communicating with each other (Zalac, 2015). Wrapping the cave discussion and taking the discussion to the point where humans started thinking about making a machine that can help them with their works. This was the time when computers were not invented but the discussions were circulating in the circles of ALSHAMSI 3 inventors. A machine that can do math. Campbell Kelly in his book A history of information wrote about pre-technological phase of human history in which he wrote about the times when computers exist and humans were the only resources to do any work everywhere. He gave the example of consensus 1890 that consisted of more than twenty thousand pages and took 7 years to write by the efforts of men (14-16). English polymath Charles Babbage, who was a mechanical engineer with the dream of an invention that can help humans in solving mathematical problems. According to Campbell, this was in fact the origination of academic discussion in the form of first researcher in search of impossible. Campbell called Babbage the father of computers because he invented the first mechanical computer that led to the invention of more complex machines after, but this becomes the base of computers in 19 th century (43). This initial stage shows the positivity of human intentions for this development. After the invention of Babbage, the focus of researchers was on to building a machine that can work more efficiently. Universities started programs of research with brilliant minds. Academic discussion adopts a new way and that way was technological advancement. These efforts were in vain for many years, models were produced as Campbell in the history of the information machine mentioned various attempts on computers by different people. It was not successful until IBM announced Computer 360 (Campbell 88-90). This was the history of computer and here after the announcement of Computer 360 computers formally join the world, computer 360 had small applications and other office related tasks. World was introduced to the computers formally and this is where a little chance of negative use of computers appeared. In 19 th century computer was just a prototype, the real start of computer development started from the designing of generations. The first generation of computers was before the ALSHAMSI 4 announcement of Computer 360, these were not the actual computers, they have a larger framework and they were only used by big firms, this generations of computer used vacuum tubes and magnetic drums. These computers were not used by common public mostly businessmen used these computers. The second generation of computers was from 1956 to 1963 and transistors were used in these types of computers it had more functions than the first generation and more efficiency due to presence of transistors. With increasing efficiency of computers, the world started to notice these machines, so the government purchased these computers to use it for military purposes. Although these computers were good and more efficient, but still, these computers were not common in world. Interface was also better from first generation of computers and hardware was updated. By this time, computer industry had started production of computers. The second- generation paved way for the upcoming generations. By the time of third generation computers 1965-1971, technological researchers made it easy for common people to use computers. That proved to be a boast up point in history of computers. This was the first time when the mouse and keyboard was used as an interface and commands to computers. Now common people can also understand computer. Third generation also used integrated circuits that made the work fast. The first time the multitasking was possible in a computer. In all the updates of third generation, most successful was the addition of user friendly interface and changes in hardware, mouse and keyboard changed the way how people use computer and made it possible for the common people to use computer in their private works. As mentioned, second generation was the base of this evolution so there were still need of improvements but this was the first personal computer This generation was from 1964 to 1971. As one can observe, with each development, availability of computers become easier for society. ALSHAMSI 5 Integration of computer in education sector. The fourth generation of computers is long lasted and most used generation that started from 1971 and ended in 2010 until the announcement of the fifth generation. The difference between this generation and last generation was the revolutionary microprocessors brought by the company Intel in market. Computers first take a full room to fit and now a single board was handling all machinery of a computer. IBM introduced computers for home use in 1981. This was the generation where the internet addiction started in the wake of 21 st century. Kimberly S. Young edited in the book, that 21 st century was the time when people become distant from other people. It is a mindset that is spreading through humans. This behavior is affecting the society, in other words we can say that these machines are controlling us. The book proved by examples the current condition of people due to addiction is really miserable. (Young 15-20) The fifth generation is not fully developed , some of the technologies are still emerging as the form of artificial intelligence in computers. Academic discussion is going towards the development of artificial intelligence as a mean to make computers that can think like humans. This is the new way that academic researchers and thinkers are now on (Sixth Generation of Computers 2011). Taking the discussion to a counter argument by the paper of J M. Wilson published in Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes journal. An experiment shows that 2 different teams, one with daily face to face interaction and other with virtual interaction through computer. People with face to face interact, trust each other more than people that interact via computer trust each other (Wilson 8). So, this was the result that the researchers found after experiment and it shows that people still feel insecure in trusting someone on the internet. ALSHAMSI 6 Richard Rosenberg in his book Social Impacts of wrote that computers are everywhere. Then he gave the example of the business world, medical, education, governmental works, personal life, etc. He gave the example of 9/11 when people used internet to inform their loved ones about their safety at that time internet played a positive role (Rosenberg 3). Another counter argument in the opposition of computer negativity thesis can be the D-CAT test. In other words, the Depression Test. This is a new technique by which humans can measure the depression and by this a lot help can be given to humanity (Hobert 2005). Now, the academic discussion is turning towards the negative impacts of computers on society. As written by Richard, computers, indeed are everywhere and this is an alarming situation. Everyone has the access to information about others, if not common people, governments have access to personal data of every single person living in their country and using the internet. Free speech is the right to humans, but people are using this right in a manipulative way and hurting others by using the shield of free speech (106- 110). Later, discussion turns to the issue of privacy protection of personal and collective data. Viruses, worms and hackers are corrupting the data present on the internet, this can lead to a social catastrophe. As mentioned in the start of paper, governments purchased computers to operate their military arms and other operations. Now, most of the military information is stored on commuter servers and these servers are although considered as fully secured but anything can happen. This is about time when any non-state actor get hands on those military servers. Military information is a sensitive information in any state, banks are now on computer systems, all these things can play a negative role more than positive role that they are playing now in society (446). Beside these possible future problems, it is totally possible that computers can be our enemies if gain ALSHAMSI 7 conscious like developers are trying to develop them. Until now, this has not happened but if there is only 1% possibility. We cannot take the risk. We have to act now. Concluding the paper, as proved from above mentioned history of computers, the evolution of computers has played significant role in taking community to a new era. But with positivity the negative aspects of computers are also prevailing on local and international level. Counterarguments of optimists are strong but no one can ignore the fact that the society is damaged more by the people who do the wrong things. There is enough evidence to prove that more development of computers is leading us to a dependent and negative life. So, humans should take steps to control this situation. Work Cited ALSHAMSI 8 Campbell-Kelly, Martin.; Aspray, William. (2014). Computer: A history of Information Machine - The Solon Technology Series (3rd edition). Boulder, Colo.: Westview Press. Zalac, Fleerackers, Kris. (2015). Did early humans communicate with cave signs? University of Victoria anthropologists studying. CBC News. Retrieved from http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/did-early-humans-communicate-with-cave-signs-1.3040723 Herbert, F. Janine, B. Otto B. Walter. J B. Bjorner. Burghard F. Klapp, & Matthias R. (2005). Development of a Computer-Adaptive Test for Depression (D-CAT). Quality of Life Research, (10). 2277. Rosenberg S. Richard. (2004). The Social Impacts of Computers (3rd edition). Academic Press Professional, Inc. San Diego, CA, USA. Sixth Generation of Computers (AI). (Jul. 17, 2011). In Technology Warehouse. Retrieved from http://www.techiwarehouse.com/engine/a7ad8fdd/Sixth-Generation-of-Computers- (Artificial-Intelligence). Wilson, J. M., Straus, S. G., & McEvily, B. (2006). All in due time: The development of trust in computer-mediated and face-to-face teams. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 9916-33. doi: 10.1016/j.obhdp.2005.08.001. Young S. Kimberly. Abreu de Nabuco Cristiano (2011). Internet Addiction: A Handbook and Guide to Evaluation and Treatment. John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.