Kiffner 1 Kayleigh Kiffner Karen Hanson ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Are Bad For You? While out shopping for groceries or cooking dinner at home, people tend to not really think about what they are buying. Genetically Modified Organisms are organisms that have been genetically altered to be more pest resistant or other factors one may want an organism to have. are everywhere and hard to not have at least one GMO product in your pantry right now as a matter of fact. About 60% of the food you eat is genetically modified (Ahmed). The top ten GMO crops are sugar, papayas, corn, dairy, soy, aspartame, zucchini, canola, cotton, and yellow squash 10 Worst GMO have unknown effects on the human body that is not scientifically proven to be safe to be eaten. Organisms are genetically modified to help with pest resistance meaning that the plant becomes toxic to its most common insect pests that can make a crop die or yield less due to an outbreak. If these newly modified organisms are made to be toxic to an insect what could it do to a person? Genetically Modified organism need to be labeled and you can start by learning about the project called The Non-GMO Project that works diligently to help get labeled as well as inform you of ways to avoid that labeled. The unknown safety of GMOs is a large concern. Yet, most people know much of what they can do to help. Currently The United States of America requires no labeling of genetically modified organisms at all (GMO Facts). use of creating herbicide resistance Kiffner 2 plants causes an increase in the use of herbicides to kill surrounding weeds (GMO Facts). Companies such as Monsanto are creating crops that can kill any insects that try to eat it. Making plants have their own pesticide built into their genes (GMO Facts). Over time the weeds become more and more resistance creating that take more herbicide to kill or a new chemical to kill them off (GMO Facts). The herbicide is sprayed all over the crops as well as the weeds since the crops now have herbicide resistance without any true research to prove the new GMO crop is safe to eat without any risky or possibly bad side effects on people. There are currently no studies that can prove whether are causing certain illnesses or allergies to occur in people more from the introduction of new Crossing some plant genes together could cause people to be allergic to more plants if they are using a gene that people are allergic to already and putting it into a different plant (Helm). In 2000, it was confirmed that 40 of the 200 allergens known in human foods have been cloned and used (Helm). Many see that allergies to foods are increasing and illnesses are the rise with the introduction of It is not yet proven whether it is correlated or not to these issues, but these risks are possible by eating these genetically modified organisms. If it is unsure whether you can catch an illness or become severely allergic to a certain type of food, eat them to avoid the possible side effects. are known to be environmentally damaging. Since are herbicide resistant, and the weeds becoming more resistant themselves. This is causing a very large increase in the use of chemicals overall. The chemicals are being sprayed onto the plants and weeds to fall into the soil (The Environmental Impact of GMOs). Anytime the sprinklers run or it starts to rain the leftover chemicals that are now in the soil cause which spreads to other areas into rivers, streams, lakes, and oceans. The chemicals then just affecting and killing weeds around the crops, but is now becoming toxins to other environments around it. Affecting Kiffner 3 other living creatures in the area (The Environmental Impact of GMOs). As well as new GMO crops are being grown in soil or environments they normally This can take a toll on the soil making it become destroyed and unable to grow plants anymore (The Environmental Impact of GMOs). To help get labeled in the United States you can get involved by contacts large corporations such as or Nestle. For instances, there are now different cereals that are certified to be GMO free with the butterfly logo created by The Non-GMO Project. You can send your concerns to these large companies the website called Just Label It. You can also get involved and make a difference by adding you name to their petition that way they can show how many people want to be labeled. Just sitting back and not acting on it help your opinion or view. The only way to make a difference in something you believe is to make it happen. Even if you think something simple that make a difference it will. Every action will get labeling one step closer. You can also act locally by getting information or the emails of your local governments to email them stating your concerns about and that they need to take action to get labeled as well. In conclusion, are not labeled, they can cause unknown effects on humans like the possibility of allergies to foods that most normally would not be allergic to. They can also possibly cause infertility and other unknown side effects from consuming such organisms. If not natural it be eaten. are affecting the environment around them too. Its damaging the environment and ecosystems. Weeds are becoming resistant to herbicides causing more toxins to be released in the ground and air. It has effects on wildlife such as birds, insects and other small creatures when pesticides are used to kill pests. Why consume a product that is already showing signs of damaging so much around it? Without scientific research and studies to Kiffner 4 prove its safety or dangers it should be labeled that way you can avoid it to keep yourself and your family safe from its unknown dangers. Kiffner 5 Works Cited Ahmed, Farid E. of genetically modified organisms in TRENDS in Biotechnology 20.5 (2202): 215-223 Environmental Impact of One Green Planet, www.onegreenplanet.org/animalsandnature/the-environmental-impact-of-gmos/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017 Non-GMO Project, www.nongmoproject.org/gmo-facts/. Accessed 15 April. 2017. Helm, Ricki M. Food biotechnology: is this good or bad? Implications to allergic  Annals of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology 90.6 (2003): 90-98. Scary Facts About One Green Planet, www.onegreenplanet.org/vegan-health/10- scary-facts-about-gmos/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. 10 Worst GMO Foods for Your GMO Foods Natural Society, 1 Oct. 2015, naturalsociety.com/top-10-worst-gmo-foods-list/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017.