Diaz 1 Laura Diaz Fennell ENC 1102 April 26 th 2017 In Florida, medicinal marijuana was legalized as an initiated constitutional amendment November 8 th , 2016. This amendment that was added to the Florida legislation made no mention of the use of recreational marijuana, although within the next 30 days, nearly 25% of U.S. youth aged 13-18 will smoke the herb (Kann). Society has made it so this number is hidden within the community, casting judgement on anyone who has even only thought about smoking pot. Instead of shunning us as we all have been going through the trivial yet impactful stage that is adolescence, the previous generations should have been educating the youth by presenting the herb in educational settings and assessing societal conditions post-legalization of recreational marijuana. The time is now. As we exit this stage in our life, we must evaluate the values of the American culture and seek legal reform by educating the public in order to progress as a nation. We must vote yes on legalization for recreational marijuana. In order to reach a point where legal reform is attainable, educational reform must take root. One point of focus concerning educating the public is presenting the economic benefits to voters and the youth. According to a 2010 study from Cato, marijuana will generate $8.7 billion dollars in federal and state tax each year. This study is based upon the idea that it would taxed similarly to that of tobacco and alcohol. The $8.7 billion dollars also Diaz 2 withholds the amount of money that would be sucked out of the prison industry as the regulation of pot would come to a screeching halt. Many states such as Colorado, Oregon, and Washington have already legalized recreational marijuana. On the state level, Washington estimated a $1.9 billion in additional revenue. Whether you stand pro- legalization or anti-legalization, it is undeniable that this is a tremendous amount of money. Imagine Florida generating this amount of revenue. Money for college students seeking an education to study in a Florida University System School for free or reduced cost. Freshly paved roads that will not take ten years to construct because there will be sufficient funds. New parks to further raise the standard of living in communities around Florida. Societal conditions would improve greatly. All of these great things are possible at the cost of one thing: vote yes on legalization of recreational marijuana. Educational reform concerning health benefits of marijuana would also encourage legal reform. It is said time and time again that there are no health benefits to smoking marijuana. When delving into published research articles this misconstrued notion quickly dissipates. In 1995 individuals conducted research that concluded that marijuana efficiently controlled symptom management in HIV/AIDS patients (Beal). In 2001, research concluded that the uncomfortable side effects from treating cancer by radiology could be subdued by marijuana (Tramer). In 2006, research concluded that as well as the terrible pains that accompany rheumatoid arthritis could also be controlled and subdued by cannabis. Educating the public is possible but it presents numerous challenges, especially in educating the youth. How do you educate the youth who throughout their life has been presented with only the bad and none of the good? How do educate someone in things they cannot even Diaz 3 admit to doing because it is deemed a category one drug? These questions create pressing situations making it difficult to establish a sincere and trusting educational environment. There is an answer though: vote yes on legalization for recreational marijuana. The last target of educational reform focuses on the stigma surrounding marijuana. Rolling a joint does not make you a terrible person. Hitting the bong as it is passed around at a get together will not make you less of a person than the next guy. In fact, notable people have admitted to smoking marijuana in their lifetime. Anti- recreational marijuana proponents never mention Barack Obama, our 44 th president and George Bush our 43 rd President admitted to smoking marijuana. Look at their success. They led an entire nation and at one point took a walk in the same shoes we walk in. Why is Bill Gates, the CEO of Microsoft, an undoubtable genius, and millionaire always left out of the conversation when anti-legalization of recreational marijuana advocates speak of all the harm the herb does to your brain cells? The list goes on and on of notable individuals who led incredibly successful and respectful lives serving as Supreme Court Justices, Musicians, scholars, philanthropists, television personalities, and many more socially normal careers. It is undoubtable that there is opportunity for oIt is a shame that success stories like these must be masked by the past generations. There is means to change these societal norms: vote yes on legalization. Education on marijuana will create a better society. Like almost all things, if done improperly, it can be harmful. Education reform concerning marijuana would target reaching out to high school students but span all grade school youth. Educating the youth will create more responsible adults. By presenting the herb through presentations in a welcoming environment, questions are welcomed, participation is welcomed, personal stories are Diaz 4 welcomed, and progress can be made. The funding for such educational projects would come from a portion of the tax placed on marijuana bought, sold, and raised. In order to progress, we must vote yes on legalization of recreational marijuana. By doing so, we open numerous doors; doors for monetary gain which opens doors for education which in turn open doors for a safer and healthier society. The benefits of voting yes on legalization of recreational marijuana are far beyond the pleasure of the local marijuana smoker or the companies that will take a dive into the booming market. Voting yes on legalization of recreational marijuana would more importantly, greatly benefit the average American. It starts with education reform, that may then be followed by legal reform. Change is possible. Vote yes on legalization for recreational marijuana. Diaz 5 Works cited Beal, J. E., Olson, R., Laubenstein, L., Morales, J. O., Bellman, P., Yangco, B., et al. (1995). Dronabinol as a treatment for anorexia associated with weight loss in patients with AIDS. Journal of Pain & Symptom Management, 10, Kann, L., Kinchen, S., Shanklin, S., et al. (2014). Youth risk behavior United States, 2013. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly, 63(SS04), Public perceptions of arguments supporting and opposing recreational marijuana legalization Preventive medicine McGinty, Emma yr:2017 vol:99 pg:80 -86 Tramer, M. R., Carroll, D., Campbell, F., Reynolds, D. J. M., Moore, A., & McQuay, H. J. (2001). Cannabinoids for control of chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting: Quantitative systematic review. British Medical Journal, 323, Zajicek, J., Fox, P., Sanders, H., Wright, D., Vickery, J., Nunn, A., et al. (2003). Cannabinoids for treatment of spasticity and other symptoms related to multiple sclerosis (CAMS study): Multicentre randomised placebo-controlled trial. The Lancet, 362,