Chima 1 Uchenna Ifeanyi Chima Professor Fenell ENC1102.039 27 April 2017 Project 3 Final Draft In 2002, a Saudi Arabian police force, The Commission for the Promotion of Virtue and Prevention of Vice, blockaded rescuers from entering the burning Makkah Intermediate School, and ultimately killed fifteen female students, because of fear that the students may not be appropriately cloaked (Dickey). A honour is the most prized and protected jewel in the Saudi Arabian Islamic culture. Consequently, the government takes measures such as segregating the work force and public settings, depriving women the rights to schooling or opening bank accounts without the consent of their male guardian, and more importantly, taking away the fundamental right to drive. Although important figures such as religious clerics and government officials believe the ban follows the the holy book for Muslims and the constitution of Saudi Arabia, Saudi prohibition of women driving restricts freedom, creates negative economic consequences, and therefore, should be abolished. With the world we are living in constantly becoming interconnected, many cultures are being lost due to conforming to customs that are being accepted globally. Saudi-Arabia, being built from a strong religious foundation, strongly believes in the preservation of its rich Islamic culture thus making higher powers such as the king and clerics create fatwas in order to protect their culture. Clerics in this religious state who initially created this fatwa, an Islamic legal pronouncement issued by an expert in religious law pertaining to a specific issue (Kabbani) against women driving defend their stance through certain religious justifications dating back as Chima 2 far as the holy Islamic book, the In an article composed by numerous religious scholars in Saudi, permitting women to drive is seen as a to the downfall of the as well as entailing unlawful Khulwah (being alone with a member of the opposite sex), unveiling the face, careless and free intermixing (of men and women), and committing adultery which is the main reason for the prohibition of these Looking at this issue from the aspect of religion, it is evident why those who are defending the fatwa choose to do so but by doing this, possibilities of further development for the country as well as the Saudi women are seized. Although allowing women to drive may increase the chance of having these risks occur, the negative impacts of upholding the fatwa as well as the benefits of abolishing the fatwa far out weigh these by a significant margin. Although supporters of the driving ban claim the fatwa protects women from engaging in situations that jeopardizes their honour, the driving prohibition in Saudi Arabia obstructs women from taking care of themselves. Without the ability and permission to drive, Saudi women are helpless in emergency and life-threatening situations. Middle Eastern Studies scholar Anne Szustek testifies that a twenty year old Saudi woman Ruwaida al-Habis was forced to haphazardly drive her father and her two brothers to the hospital after a serious fire accident. Along with facing health hazards, Saudi women cannot perform routine activities due to the driving ban. According to the petition by the Saudi Women for Driving Coalition to U.S. Secretary of State Hilary Clinton, the driving ban restricts Saudi women from such as grocery shopping, picking up their children, and The driving ban keeps Saudi women in a state of absolute dependency on males and control by their families. Chima 3 In the past, women in Saudi Arabia played a basic role in society of maintaining domestic affairs in the home. However, due to modernization, the role of Saudi women is emerging as more female Saudi citizens are attending educational institutions and seeking job opportunities (Hamdan). There are more educated women in Saudi Arabia today than ever before. In fact, senior researcher at Human Rights Watch in the Middle East, Christoph Wilcke, specifies that in 2012 of college students in Saudi Arabia (Wilcke). With an influx of intelligent and skilled female population, these women should be actively participating in the workforce. However, the driving ban against women in Saudi Arabia makes it tremendously difficult for females to contribute to the Saudi economy. Due to the driving fatwa, women do not have a reliable source for commuting to work. Women in Saudi Arabia clearly want to be involved in the progression of the economy. Even though more educated women are trying to squeeze into the work force, many others back down because the driving ban puts an inconvenient financial strain on themselves and their families. The unjustifiable death of fifteen young female students during the fire at Makkah Intermediate School accurately portrays how the conventional views of the Saudi Government have led to the demise of its people. Likewise, the driving ban against women in Saudi Arabia parallels how religious conservatives cripple its citizens in order to maintain the Islamic tradition. Although many believe it complies with the sacred writings of the prohibiting women from driving impedes on freedom and suppresses the economy. For civil and economic reasons, the driving ban should be eradicated. The driving ban in Saudi Arabia renders women incapable of performing daily routine activities. Educated women are constrained to the house without work, leaving them solely financially dependent on males. Saudi women are treated like second-class citizens in their own country. Time has come for women to take the Chima 4 wheel and exercise their basic rights. The good news is that change is promising. Tapping into the most fundamental structure of human nature, which is the ability to socialize and effectively convey ideas to one another, we can undoubtedly spread awareness of this issue with our friends, relatives and neighbors through conversational means. In addition, by harnessing the power of social media and coalescing international organizations, social change will certainly prevail within the obdurate Saudi government. Chima 5 Works Cited Al-Awtar, Nayl. Fatwas of Ibn  Fatwas of Ibn Baz. N.p., 19 Apr. 2010. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Hamdan, Amani. Women and Education in Saudi  Women and Education in Saudi Arabia: Challenges and Achievements (n.d.): n. pag. 09 July 2005. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Kabbani, Muhammad Hisham. What Is a  The Islamic Supreme Council of America. N.p., 15 Mar. 2010. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Secretary Clinton: Publicly Support Saudi Right to  Change.org. N.p., 12 Mar. 2010. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Szustek, Anne. Saudi Prohibitions on Female Drivers  FindingDulcinea. N.p., 22 Aug. 2008. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Wilcke, Christoph. Workplace Battle Continues for Saudi  Human Rights Watch. N.p., 27 Aug. 2012. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Chima 6