Pedone 1 Emily Pedone Professor Campbell ENC 1102 Project 3 Intermediate Draft The Advocacy of Abolishment The United States currently enforces an implied sanction of involuntary hospitalization for the mentally ill, legally known as civil commitment. Like most medical practices, it has positives and negatives. However, one group The Commission on Human Rights actively works on convincing the public to end the practice entirely, including all forms of psychiatry. The CCHR, under the organization of Scientology, pushes forward a radical agenda on ending psychiatry, which would deny millions of citizens the proper healthcare they need. The idea of civil commitment is nothing new. In fact, people have been involuntarily hospitalized in America since the 1700s. It has become a psychological practice in theory, a medical emergency in implication, and a judicial controversy in legislation. Each state has its own guidelines in regards to when/how to have someone hospitalized. For instance, the State of Florida enforces the Baker Act. This is implied when an individual, seen as either a threat to others and/or themselves, are allowed to be held in a psychiatric hospital for 72 hours maximum without their own consent. Many people see it as unconstitutional. However, it remains a necessary evil to protect communities and give individuals the help they need. Some groups, such as the National Alliance on Mental Illnesses, fight to not only protect civil commitment but Pedone 2 also improve its conditions. The Citizens Commission on Human Right lands on the complete opposite end of the spectrum. At first glance, the CCHR is another proficient human rights group who advocates for the greater good. It is a self-proclaimed health claiming no political, religious, or personal ties (cchr.org). This is far from the truth. The root of the organization is Scientology, a religious group infamous for being referred to as a cult. Their Flagship headquarters (literally) are in downtown Clearwater, Florida. The group poses as attempting to implicate legislation to better mental health conditions. On the contrary, their bottom-line goal is to end all practices of psychology and psychiatry (source). Their root, simply put, is the core beliefs of Scientology. To understand the human rights crisis that the CCHR poses on mental health, it is important to first understand where Scientology stands. Scientology was founded in 1954 but science-fiction author L. Ron Hubbard. It began when he wrote the novel Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health. Hubbard crafted these ideas into a Dianetics Foundation (source), which soon went bankrupt and caused him to lose the rights to his books. Hubbard then declared Dianetics as a religious finding, and called it Scientology. It caught on quickly. People were drawn to its humanitarian aspect of pro-peace and anti-war. For many years though, it was not a recognized religion, but rather a science-fiction cult. Once Hubbard passed away, the IRS charged the organization with all of his previous tax crimes. Scientology then filed over 2,000 lawsuits against the IRS, and claimed that they can all (source) if the IRS drops the charges and officially declares Scientology a religion. And so, in 1993, the Church of Scientology was officially a recognized religion, and thereby exempted from paying taxes. Pedone 3 This may be seen as a victory to our country. It is an honor and privilege that Americans have the freedom to believe whatever they choose to. Unfortunately, religious status imposes massive human rights issues. As an official religion, The Church is protected under the First Amendment. Therefore, investigations into their practices are considered unconstitutional. For instance, the FBI had to drop an investigation into The Church for suspected human trafficking. Although the proof of that is scarce, the biggest injustice is regards to mental health. According to Dianetics and the basis of the religion, mental illnesses actual illnesses. All of our sadness and depressions come from past lives. According to Scientology and works, years ago, a galactic overlord threw alien bodies into the volcanoes of Hawaii (this is not made up; they actually believe this). The souls of those bodies now wander the Earth and attach themselves to us, thus creating all our bad feelings. However, all of this belief is not public knowledge. It takes years of dedication to The Church before a member reaches the level where they can learn this knowledge. At the curtesy of modern social media, literature, and documentaries, ex-members have made such knowledge available to the public. Thus, according to said ex-members, when a Scientologist has been through enough levels of the religion, they are presented with the information regarding the galactic overlord. It is kept in a locked briefcase and is written by Hubbard himself. More or less, The Church has its own ways of dealing with negative feelings. Parishioners are not allowed to engage in psychological therapy or psychiatric medicine. Instead, they go through where they recount instances that give them negative feelings until they affect them anymore (insert source). Pedone 4 The oddities of beliefs are not an issue. Rather, the unethical treatment that is justified under the pretenses of such beliefs. Besides the obvious aversion to psychiatry, what exactly does this mean for mental health care? Practicing Scientologists are not allowed to undergo any psychiatric treatment and, if asked about it, are punished. The organization also makes it incredibly difficult to leave, thus creating a sense of and depression for its members. Furthermore, Scientologists have a policy of where they are not allowed to connect in any way with ex-friends or family members that doubt Scientology or pose a threat to the system. These people are considered Suppressive Persons, or Once one is declared an SP, Scientologists are not allowed to associate with them. It is more or less a blacklist for Church members. Not following Disconnection can lead to serious punishment. Thus, these implications tear apart beloved families. There are several other accusations against The Church that are also considered human rights crises. Ex-members have come out to claim instances of forced manual labor, sleep deprivation, sexual assault, and verbal abuse. Once again, investigations cannot be made into these accusations because the protection of its religious status. The lack of federal legislation and civil movements to end these crimes are few and far between. Yet the impact relevantly affects a wide range of society. For Florida residents, Clearwater is infamously known to locals as plunging into decline. The downtown area is flooded with members of Scientology who attempt to recruit passer-byers. Clearwater beach is a main tourist attraction and is a nationally recognized beach. Scientologists target tourists into their recruitment process. On the contrary, if you hang around downtown for too long, take video, or look suspicious, security officers will begin to follow you around. Most events escalate to the point of officers asking passer-byers to leave, or even attempting to confiscate their Pedone 5 phones. This behavior is not only allowed but also encouraged by the Clearwater authorities, due to the fact that the Church brings such famous members like Tom Cruise and John Travolta to the city. Both celebrities are infamous for sticking up for the organization. Cruise has gone as far as to publicly bash mental illnesses on live TV. The Citizens Commission on Human Rights pushes agendas like to major global platforms. The more people that it reaches, the more people that are denied proper treatment. According to the Commission, psychiatry is inherently evil, and the cause for all tragic events such as 9/11 and the Holocaust. Millions of US citizens benefit daily from psychiatric care. One in five people suffer from some category of mental illness. (insert source).