Rhule 1 Jessica Rhule ENC 1102 Project 3 Intermediate Draft 04/18/2017 Involuntary Commitment: Treat They Have To Over 44,193 Americans die in car accidents caused by texting each year, and for each one 25 more were on life support. Now what if I revealed to you that the word suicide was replaced with car accidents caused by texting in that sentence? The real fact is that 44,193 Americans die from suicide each year, and for everyone of those individuals who died, 25 more made attempts Suicide: Suicide a lot more uncomfortable it? Suicide has been the 10 th leading cause of death in the United Sates since 2014 Causes of It is the 3 rd leading cause for people ages15 to 24, and the second among ages 25 to 34, so evidently this is a huge issue in America Yet, we still avoid discussing it, and mental illness is still shameful, and therapy is still taboo. Despite such a huge epidemic, this discomfort when discussing such topics continues to keep people with these struggles in the dark, and people who do not stay unaware of a gigantic problem that can often be prevented. Due to the Baker Act, anytime a professional service provider suspects a person to be a threat of harm to themselves or anyone else due to mental illness, or due to substance usage (Marchman Act) they have to report it to the authorities and the person will most likely be Rhule 2 This means the person will be held in a psychiatric receiving facility for up to 72 hours, and then reevaluated and typically allowed to leave. For some, this is the wake up call they needed to get proper help, and therefore, they can get effective treatment and find satisfaction and happiness again. However, being Baker Acted can do more harm than good, if the treatment in that 72 hours is not received or provided well. The effectivity of this 72 hour hold varies per individual, thus, it is recommended to recognize the early symptoms, and get treatment before it would get to that point. With any other illness like heart disease or cancer, urged and expected to receive treatment immediately. It is talked about, and most of your loved would want to provide for you and support you. When there is any other life threatening issue we do not wait for it to be fatal to start treatment, often we even start with prevention, so why would we do that with mental health?... something that can be just as deadly? B4Stage4 Just like these other diseases, no one set cause for suicide and it often develops over time. There are warning signs that can be indicative that the person needs help long before it ever comes to committing suicide, if you know what to look for. First, suicide is not exclusive to those with mental illness, alcohol addiction, or substance use disorder, anyone can show these signs in their talk, behavior, mood, and thinking. Some of the warning signs can be things like talking about being a bother, feeling like they cannot escape, or that there is no hope, or no at the end of the Some behaviors that might be worth looking for could be increased substance usage, any sudden changes in behavior, loss of appetite, giving away valuables, and withdrawing from normal behaviors or from people. Feelings can include feeling depressed, apathetic/loss of interest, quick to anger/irritate, or shift from negative feelings to feelings of relief and content Factors and Warning Rhule 3 Part of the problem in our society is the stigma associated with suicide, mental illness, and therapy. only does the stigmatization of mental illness prevent in which to a greater risk of suicide, but also suicide can appear to be the best solution for a stigmatized (Pompili, Mancinelli, & Tatrelli). The idea that suicidal thoughts show weakness, and are something to be ashamed of, or selfish plays a large part in preventing individuals from getting treatment early, which can be such a crucial part of the healing process (Pompili). If we can face mental illness as if it was physical illness so many people would stop feeling shame, and guilt, for asking for help with feelings they cannot help. Dealing with suicide, depression, or any other mental illness can be a scary, and isolating experience, but people who experience these things are not alone, and deserve to have the support system that could help them to recovery. There is a light at the tunnel, despite how hard it is to see, and professionals are surrounding us here, and reaching out can be the first step to recovery. If there ever is a time you feel like you could benefit from mental health help, or you are concerned about someone else, reach out for help, it hurt, and will more than likely, at least prevent it from getting worse. Here at the University of South Florida, there is a 24 hour crisis line at (813)-974-2831, while during office hours you may ask for a counselor, and outside of office hours, press 3 and you will be connected to a counselor, and there are free counseling services for students at SVC 2124. Other resources on campus include the Office of Student Outreach and Support, the Center for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention, and the University Police Department. Outside of campus is the Crisis Center of Tampa Bay which hosts a 365 days of the year, and 24 hours a day, help-line and online help services at 2-1-1, or crisiscenter.com Rhule 4 References Suicide: Suicide American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, 2017, https://afsp.org/about-suicide/suicide-statistics/ University of South Florida, 2017, http://www.usf.edu/student- affairs/counseling-center/ Causes of Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 17 March 2017, https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/fastats/leading-causes-of-death.htm Pompili, M., Mancinelli, I., Tatarelli, R., as a Cause of The British Journal of Psychiatry, Jul. 2003, http://bjp.rcpsych.org/content/183/2/173.2 Factors and Warning American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, 2017, https://afsp.org/about-suicide/risk-factors-and-warning-signs/ Emory University, 2017, http://www.emorycaresforyou.emory.edu/resources/suicidestatistics.html Mental Health America, 2017, http://www.mentalhealthamerica.net/b4stage4-philosophy