Nguyen 1 Peter Huy-Xuan Nguyen Bob Botkin Composition II Section 063 15 April 2017 Russian Annexation of Crimea: Multimodal Argument The Russian Annexation over the Crimean peninsula has been ongoing for the past three years. The ensuring conflict between Ukrainian and Russian backed forces has caused up to innocent civilian deaths backed by the Russian government led by Vladimir Putin. Despite sanctions imposed on Russia by Western nations, more actions needs to be taken by the global international community to address the Russian aggression against foreign sovereign territory to deter further examples of territorial based unrest. This issue has originated in 1954 when the Crimean Peninsula was handed over from Russia to Ukraine during the era of the Soviet Union, which was furthered in 1991 when Russia major influence over the Crimea with the collapse of the Soviet Union. Despite having a military presence with their naval presence, the Ukrainian closer relationship with the European Union and the west has threatened sense of security and control over the region, which led to annexation of Crimea in 2014. Consequently, the Russian occupation over the Crimean peninsula has had major implications towards the population of Crimea with major human rights abuses in the aftermath of their annexation. This has further implications as this has heightened the tension between the Western nations and Russia, which could return the geopolitical sphere to Cold War level. Despite, the Western response to the annexation of Crimea with sanctions imposed on Russia, multiples means to support the resistance effort against the Russian aggression exists through aiding Ukrainian organizations globally that send aids to assist Ukrainian fighters and civilians. Nguyen 2 The complexity of the Russian annexations of Crimea stems back to the era of the Soviet Union, when Russia and Ukraine were both administered back then under one centralized Moscow based government. According to Austin Charron, a PhD candidate focusing on Crimean studies, Crimea had been controversially by previous Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev in 1954 from the Russian Soviet Federal Socialist Republic to the Ukrainian Soviet Federal Socialist Republic, which had been linked to the Ukrainian mainland via the Perekop Isthmus (Charron 234). However, the growing distance in Ukrainian relations from their traditional Russian neighbor culminated in the 2013 Euromaidan Crisis, where the Ukrainian people opted for closer ties with the European Union. Russian President Vladimir Putin as a result, took further action to protect their national security against their perceiving Western encroachment of the Russian Federation since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. This was further reinforced when Ted Hopf, a Professor of Political Science in the National University of Singapore mentioned that could not possibly be a hostile NATO naval base in Crimea, especially given Imperial valiant military struggles over centuries to secure this territory for (Hopf 247). Robert P. Hager, Jr, an instructor in the Los Angeles Mission College, stated that the Russian President believed that can play a unique role in uniting (Hager 216) with the reunification of ethnic Russians with their perceived motherland which ultimately motivated Vladimir Putin to invade the Ukrainian autonomous Crimean region. However, according to Sajjad Bagheria, Hamid Reza Akbarpour, who are PhD students in Islamic Azad University in Iran, President Petro Poroshenko recognize any referendum and he accept occupation and separation from Ukraine under any (Bagheria and Akbarpourb 92), which ultimately justifies Ukrainian resistance against the Russian annexation of their sovereign territory. Nguyen 3 As the consequence of the Russian subsequent occupation of the Crimean Peninsula, the peaceful way of life for the Crimean people, who were happy under Ukrainian autonomy, has had a significant impact where there has been implication for human rights abuses under the new Russian administration. The Crimean people, according to Erika and Dainius who are faculty at Vilnius University in Lithuania, believed that they were multi-ethnic who perceive themselves to be a unique community distinct from Russians, Ukrainians, and  (Leonite and Zalimas 17). This shows that they previously lived in peace, demonstrating how they had accepted the status quo of Ukrainian control over Crimea before the crisis in Ukraine, which has devastated the still relatively young Eastern European republic caught between Russian and European spheres of influence. However, Yulia Gorbunova, a researcher in Human Rights Europe and Central Asia Division stated that the new Russian authorities has curtailed human rights protection by limiting free expression, restricting peaceful assembly, and intimidating and harassing those who have been opposing actions in (Gorbunova 332). Moreover, the local occupying force have been implicated in grave abuses: enforced disappearances (some subsequently found dead), unlawful detention and ill- treatment, sometimes torture, of activists, journalists, and other individuals who are or are perceived to be pro-Ukrainian (Gorbunova 332). Overall, International Law under the 1949 Geneva Conventions stated that is considered when it comes under the control or authority of foreign armed forces, whether partially or entirely, without the consent of the domestic (Gorbunova 329). This has hence, according to Dr. Kristian a Senior Research Fellow with the Norwegian Defence Research Establishment, this had led to a significant worsening of relations with the West where Vladimir use of military force and subversive measures has given rise to uncertainty that goes well beyond the post-Soviet Nguyen 4 163). Hence, the efforts to enhance level of preparedness and the size and capability of the rapid deployment 172) was a response to the Russian potential threat of instigating a global conflict. This has not demonstrated only the immediate local effects of the annexation of Crimea, but it has ultimately revealed the global implication of the geopolitical situation with tensions that has risen back to Cold War level. The direct western response against Russia for their annexation of Crimea has had a major impact on the growingly aggressive nation, but has done little to deter occupation and further conflicts in the region. Hence, the best way to support the Ukrainian resistance against the Crimean occupation and Russian involvement in the subsequent separatist war in Eastern Ukraine is through global organizations that sends aid to assist the Ukrainian civilians that have been affected and displaced by the conflict. The Ukrainian military and fighters, that actively combat the Russian backed militants, can be supported by helping fund and donate military equipment and aid to support their defensive efforts. According to Christian Dreger, Konstantin A. Kholodilina, Dirk Ulbricht and Jarko Fidrmuc who are economists from DIW Berlin, Zeppelin, Charles and Henan University respectively, the Russian ruble lost 50% of its value against the US dollar, which been caused by sanctions imposed by Western countries due to annexation of Crimean. Moreover, the boycott on natural resource exports which Russia is heavily dependent on is another factor behind their deteriorating economy which has subsequently caused a large decline in the oil prices from Summer 2014 onwards (Dreger, Kholodilina, Ulbricht and Fidrmuc 295). However, these actions taken against the Russian economy has not deterred the Russian intervention in Crimea and subsequently in Eastern Ukraine, hence multiple overseas organization exists, with significant amounts in the United States, which are dedicating to help support the Ukrainian resistance efforts against Russia Nguyen 5 through online donations. The Ukrainian American Coordinating Council Northern California has been a strong advocate of Freedom and independence in Ukraine where it has helped provided humanitarian aids and non-lethal military equipment to the Ukrainian military, and to multiple Ukrainian volunteer battalions who actively fight against the pro-Russian separatists on their territory (UACCCalifornia). Moreover, Maidan MN shares similar goals in supporting quest for democracy and civil rights through raising awareness locally about Ukraine and its people, where they assist refugees and orphans, as well as send immediate medical supplies for Ukrainian soldiers and volunteers (MaidanMN). The U.S. Ukraine Foundation, which is dedicated through building peace and prosperity through shared democratic values have a further directory of organizations within the United States that can aid Ukraine during the conflict(USUkraine). These organizations can be the direct means of actively support their resistance against Russian further aggression as they fight to retake their lands lost to Russian backed forces to ultimately complement the international sanctions against Russia for their Annexation of Crimea. The Russian Annexation of the Crimean peninsula and the subsequent conflict in Eastern Ukraine, backed by the Russian government has had a devastating impact on the young post- Soviet republic for the past three year. The annexation of Crimea and the resulting conflict, that had its origins back in 1954 under the era of the Soviet Union, was influenced by political opportunism under Russian President Vladimir Putin, which was fundamentally shaped by shifting ties towards the European Union away from Russia. The following Russian occupation of Crimea has had major consequences for not only the people of Crimea who experiences major human rights abuses, but also has major implication for global geopolitics where tensions between the West and the Russian sphere of influence has risen back to the levels Nguyen 6 experiences during the Cold War. With the ineffectiveness of international sanctions against Russia on deterring their intervention in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine, despite crippling their economy and oil exports, multiple organizations outside of Ukraine exists to help support not only civilians affected by the conflict but to Ukrainian soldiers and volunteers who actively engage in combat against the separatist. Hence, the support of these organizations through donations can ultimately provide a direct means of aiding the Ukrainian resistance efforts against Russia to gain back their territory, which was lost from annexation of the Crimea. Nguyen 7 Works Cited Kristian. North European security after the Ukraine  Defense & Security Analysis 32.2 (2016): 163-76. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Bagheri, Sajjad, and Hamid Reza Akbarpour. Reinvestigation of the Sanctions against Russia in the Crisis of Ukraine and  Procedia Economics and Finance 36 (2016): 89-95. Web. 13 Apr. 2017 Charron, Austin. Whose is Crimea?: Contested Sovereignty and Regional  Region: Regional Studies of Russia, Eastern Europe, and Central Asia 5.2 (2016): 225-56. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Dreger, Christian, Jarko Fidrmuc, Konstantin A. Kholodilin, and Dirk Ulbricht. The Ruble between the Hammer and the Anvil: Oil Prices and Economic  SSRN ElectronicJournal 44.2 (2016): 295-308. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Gorbunova, Yulia. Human Rights Abuses in Crimea under  Security and Human Rights 25.3 (2014): 328-40. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Hager, Robert P. History and Culture in Russia and Ukraine: How to Complicate a Crisis of European  Democracy and Security 12.3 (2016): 211-18. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Hopf, T. is ours: A discursive  International Relations 30.2 (2016): 227-55. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Erika, and Dainius The Annexation of Crimea and Attempts to Justify It in the Context of International  Lithuanian Annual Strategic Review 14.1 (2016): 11- 63. Web. 13 Apr. 2017.  UACCCalifornia. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Nguyen 8  MaidanMn. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. DIRECTORY OF U.S. ORGANIZATIONS AIDING  U.S. Ukraine Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.