Wood 1 Mallory Wood Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 11 April 2017 Protecting Endangered Species Many people enjoy going to the zoo to see animals from exotic places which they would not be able to see otherwise. Zoos are becoming one of the only places where certain animals can be seen. If endangered species are not supported, future generations will not be able to have the pleasure of seeing them whether in zoos or otherwise. At the rate things are moving, the only place certain animals will be able to be seen will be as exhibits in museums. There are thousands of species that are endangered with dozens of species going extinct everyday (Center for Biological Diversity). The main dangers to animals are excessive hunting, destruction of their habitats, new diseases and pollution (Tischauser, 32). The University of South Florida works hand in hand with the World Wildlife Fund to spread awareness of the issue of animals dying, therefore becoming endangered. The university will be hosting a t-shirt drive to raise funds and spread information on how to make a difference in the lives of the endangered animals. All students of USF are being urged to support this cause to help prolong the wildlife. According to the Center for Biological Diversity, 99% of the species at risk of extinction are endangered because of the repercussions of human activity, while in the years before mass extinctions were caused by asteroids, volcanic eruptions and natural shifts in climate (Center for Biological Diversity). A major killer of many species is habitat destruction which mainly includes deforestation, whether it be for lumber, the expansion of land for agriculture or raising Wood 2 new buildings, or even for obtaining fuel (Center for Biological Diversity). When trees are cut down, the animals who live in the trees or in the forest are sometimes killed in the process, or are forced to evacuate their habitats and find somewhere else to live. When this happens their whole way of life is disrupted and they may not be able to find the food necessary for survival, this could eventually lead to death. If all the animals are killed prematurely the Earth is going to suffer and this will affect the generations to come which is why college students need to be involved and aware of the issue for their sake and their future Hunting animals is a pastime that numerous people take part in, whether out of necessity, greed, or recreationally. When people hunt, usually the same species are targeted which allows for that population to decrease in numbers more rapidly than they should. The worst form of hunting, however, is what is called poaching. Poaching is the illegal trade of animals where they are taken for things like their fur, horns, or bones in most cases (WWF). There are only approximately 3890 remaining tigers and their biggest threat is poaching (WWF). Animals are poached because the prices for the items such as a horn and ivory from elephants are extremely high and a large profit can be made from obtaining and selling these products. Animals are exposed to new diseases by the contamination of their habitats or their food or water sources. When the animals are forced to cohabitate because they have been forced out of their habitat, diseases that affect one species may start to affect the other. Having not built up any resistance to these new illnesses it will be more detrimental to them thus speeding up the rate of extinction. Many people, especially college students, hear of all these threats to the animals and decide that they are unable anything to stop this because it is not directly being caused by something they are doing. This is not true, there are many organizations out there who work to protect and save these animals such as the World Wildlife Fund (WWF). Donating to these Wood 3 organizations is one of the way people can help with this. Many of the organizations even start petitions to try and combat certain attacks on animals. WWF has been saving animals for over fifty years. The have projects in countries all around the world to save a variety of animals. has been part of successful wildlife recovery stories ranging from southern black rhino to black bucks in the (WWF). They take many different approaches to combatting the issue, they empower people to help protect the resources or they directly go out to save animals and stop the illegal killing and imprisonment of animals. This organization has saved hundreds of animals from captivity and illegal killing. These are the reasons why people need to support this organization as they have the results to prove their efforts. The University of South Florida agrees that extinction of endangered animals is a very large issue that needs to be addressed, so on May 1 st they will be holding an event in which they provide information on the gravity of the extinction crisis. During this event they will be selling various t-shirts, with the funds from each different t-shirt going to a specific organization which works to protect and save endangered animals. Buying a T-shirt allows both parties to benefit as the buyer will have a nice new shirt to wear and show off to friends which provides the opportunity to inform people on the issue, and the WWF benefits as they are gaining money to support their missions to save the animals. The event is an opportunity for the students of USF to become more educated and aware of the struggles and allows you to spread the word because the more people willing to try to speak out against this issue, the higher chance of the animals living a much longer life. Wood 4 Works Cited Impact of habitat loss on  WWF. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. for Biological N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Wildlife  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Tischauser, Leslie V. Endangered  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Science (2016): n. pag. Web. 05 Feb. 2017.