Regine Lordeus Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 24 April 2017 Standardized Testing According to Dan Fletcher, earliest record of standardized testing comes from China, where hopefuls for government jobs had to fill out examinations testing their knowledge of Confucian philosophy and (Standardized Testing 2). Standardized testing is about accountability for parents, students and teachers. It was established on the ownership of learning. It also speaks to the likelihood of those who will be proficient in careers after public education. However, it is not the best indicator as to what a student knows because some students are kinesthetic learners, some are auditory learners, and other are visual learners. High stakes testing measures an understanding of academic fundamentals. Students would like standardized testing to be banned because they feel like they are being evaluated inaccurately which encourages them to cheat. The audience for my argument would be retirement-aged adults. elder has a chance to transfer their knowledge, skills, and values to the next generation. Intergenerational programs allow a retiree to continue being involved in the community to give of their time and knowledge in exchange for the personal satisfaction that comes with volunteering. (Senior-youth mentoring programs). In an effort to inform, a seminar will be held at the University of South Florida June 8 th , 9 th , and 10 th at 6 pm. We will inform the guest on the importance of standardized testing, how students can earn scholarships, introduce our new retiree tutoring program coming up, and welcome them to join it! In order to get the retirees to understand standardized testing is a great cause, they will need a thorough explanation on how staying in school and passing exams can help students be The public knows standardized testing causes test-anxiety, and evaluates only performance rather than their overall growth. Our goal is to teach the audience the importance of standardized testing and and the long-term advantages of doing well. I will educate the elderly, by mapping out ideas on why we need standardized testing. To begin, I will display to the retirees a practice test of the exam so they can get a visualize example of what the students are currently taking. Then, I will explain to them that students are allowed to take the exam up to as many times they want to achieve a high score and receive scholarships. The retirees will then understand that standardized testing differs from teacher assessment test. Without standardized testing makers would have to depend on test that are scored individually teachers and schools that have a vested interest in producing favorable (12 Primary Pros and Cons of Standardized Testing). Older adults would be able to help engage parents, and students on why standardized should not be removed, and ways to improve their children style of learning. This kind of program could not only improve test scores, but also help students stay motivated to succeed. Standardized testing is managed and recorded in a steady technique that consists of multiple choice questions and one expository essay. Students, teachers, and parents are already uncertain about the exam itself, therefore, I believe the most effective audience to help them change their perspectives on standardized testing would be the retirees. This demographic of teaching experience can benefit the retirees as well as the student. Retirement is the time of life were people like to give back, and tutoring these students can also allow them to feel connected with their community. It can also help them feel connected to the future generation. According to Senior-youth mentoring programs, and youth benefit from increased self-esteem, knowledge, and skills. By spending time in a positive relationship with a senior citizen, the younger generation gains a better understanding of the process of aging. They also find older adults to be supportive role models, which leads to an all-around increase in the motivation to learn, and leadership and communication (1). Retirees would be in charge of tutoring students who are in need of extra practice. Students may be able to grasp information much better from an outside source, knowing that they will be presented information in a new way rather than their instructors way. It is important we find the key idea on how to help students achieve the score they want. In order to get this memo out, the retirees will explain to students, teachers, and parents that there is a way to defeat standardized testing with our help by providing tutoring and practice exams. Tutoring these students can help them feel useful and spending time in a positive relationship with a senior citizen, the younger generation gains a better understanding of the process of (Senior- youth mentoring programs). It is understood that standardized testing only a small portion of what makes education (12 Primary Pros and Cons of Standardized Testing). Students spend a fair amount of time studying to maintain an average grade point and those who have severe test anxiety are likely to receive low test scores. However, with the help of our tutoring program, standardized testing will become easier for students to succeed. working together, students and elders facilitate community collaboration, pooling of resources and cooperative problem- solving. All participants learn and respect each traditions, learn to value, and accept diversity communities gain awareness about issues affecting multiple (Senior-youth mentoring programs). With the help of tutoring and practice test, students will definitely see improvements from their previous test scores. This program is not to exclude anyone who wants to get involved, but purposely for the retirees to tutor students. We welcome any organizational financial or advertising help. If interested in volunteering, click the link to direct you to the page. https://rlordeus21.wixsite.com/ace101tutor Standardized testing is designed to assess academic performances and to compare performances in a relative manner. Practically every high school student must complete the process of taking the SAT or ACT if they are interested in attending a college, university, or a performing arts school. To help take away the negative stigma of standardized testing we must focus on motivating them and strengthening their learning styles. Tutoring service will be held at ACE 101 located on Temple Terrace, Tampa FL. It is highly important we get students on the right track and get rid of the myth that standardized testing is just to judge our intelligence. The retiree tutoring program will benefit both groups. Retirees could benefit students by receiving a high test score, and could close community ties for both students and tutors. adults participating in intergenerational programs benefit from new, positive relationships with youth and children in their community. Volunteer work increases a sense of purpose, which leads to greater self-esteem, often at a time in life when many older adults are depressed or (Senior-youth mentoring programs). Work Cited Primary Pros and Cons of Standardized Green Garage Blog,12 August. 2015. Web 6 April 2017 Fletcher, Dan. Content Time, 11 December 2009, pp.1-3. Web 6 April 2017 mentoring Today, 23 September 2004. Web. 24 April 2017 Wrong With Standardized  The National Center for Fair & Open Testing. N.p., 22 May 2012. Web. 6 April 2017