Daddario 1 Mathieu Daddario Kevin Ip ENC 1102 2/12/2017 The Fight Against Puppy Mills Imagine waking up in a 3 x 3 cage everyday for your whole life. Imagine not going on walks to get fresh air, and exercise, all you see for your whole life is dogs in other cages stacked above, below and next to you. That is the life of a dog in a puppy mill. The dog has no power, no free will, and no meaning of life besides breeding constantly. We have to make a change and fight against puppy mills. A non profit organization called the Humane Society of the United States is working to give dogs a fighting chance against puppy mills. You could help against the puppy mills by donating your time and money to this organization, or you could just help by going out there and adopt dogs from shelters and volunteering for APHIS. Most important way to help fight against puppy mills is to spread the word of what puppy mills do. To start with I will inform you about what struggles are going on against puppy mills, and at the end I will give you some more ways to help fight against puppy mills. There are a multitude of issues facing puppy mills, to start off with there are 10,000 puppy mills in the United States which some are licensed and some are unlicensed, which lead to more than 2 million dogs bred each year. According to (The Puppy Mill Project) million dogs are euthanized in puppy shelters every There are too many dogs and not enough people to love them which leads to innocent dogs being murdered inadvertently for profit. Some of the problems of the mills involves the size of the cages. For instance, the size of a cage is only a couple inches bigger than the dog itself, usually that number is 6 inches bigger than the dog. Daddario 2 (Mel) So the dogs have no wiggle room and no room to walk around. All the dog is able to do is just sit in the cage. That leads to dogs being stacked in cages next to other dogs. If a dog gets sick the puppy mill breeders take the time to help out the sick dog and they remove the dog from the other dogs. The dogs are only meant to bred and nothing else. So that sick dog can get all the other dogs sick. Now on top of that is the fact that they are constantly breeding, leads to the puppies to have many different types of health problems. For instance, some the puppies have, heart disease, kidney disease, musculoskeletal disorders, blood disorders, eye problems, and respiratory (ASPCA) Also when the puppies are taken to the stores to be sold they still have parasites such as heartworms, ticks, kennel cough and many other types of illnesses and diseases. (ASPCA) The dogs that are in the puppy mills are malnourished and usually are dying of starvation and dehydration. There are also many social problems with the puppies from the puppy mills, because they are taking the puppies away from the mother with in 6 weeks of birth. Which the first couple of months are important for the puppy to learn how to act and socialize normally. By taking the puppy away from the mother leads the puppy to get certain types of social disorders. For instance, this can make these puppies more aggressive, can make them fear everything more, make them extremely shy, and make them have anxiety. Then these puppies are able to be sold to market at week 8 of their life. According to Penny Nuzum she used to work at a puppy mill type of place and she tells horrific stories of what she encountered in the puppy mill. She recalled one time when there any cooling where the dogs were and she found that a couple of dogs had died due to dehydration and heat stroke, so she had to get rid of the bodies. She told how she got rid of some smaller types of dogs had a burn barrel out back and if they were small Daddario 3 enough, put the body in a dog food bag and burn it ... the bags burn, dogs  (Luplow, Lyle Muller and Jacob) Now the well being of the animals in the puppy mills are terrible, there are laws to try and give the animals rights. That law is the Animal Welfare Act and it has require that federally established standards of care and treatment be provided for certain warm-blooded (APHIS) and it is enforced by the USDA APHIS, which is the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS). So what they do is have yearly check ups for inspecting these puppy mills and dog breeding facilities. For the most part they are not in compliant to the Animal Welfare Act but usually are left with a warning to change what ever they did wrong and would revisit them later on. For example, there are two types of violations of the Animal Welfare Act when breeding facilities or puppy mills are being inspected. There is the indirect violation which means the animal is in no way being harmed by this violation. The other violation is the direct violation and that has to do with things that directly harm the animals and are usually a lot more serious. But according to LaHay indirect violations that are not cited could affect an health, especially if one is failure to have veterinary records on site at the breeding (Luplow, Lyle Muller and Jacob) Sybil Soukup is a director of the Humane Society of North she talks about how a breeder might be USDA certified but that really means nothing, she goes on to talk about how the Animal Welfare Act was created in 1965 and now a days it is a lot different. puppy mills exist in 1965 on a scale that they do now, and the standards are very  (Luplow, Lyle Muller and Jacob) Now there are a lot of problem with enforcing these laws. The main reason is because they have such a small amount of people who are inspectors. The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) only has about 120 people who do Daddario 4 these inspections, and they have to inspect around licensed and registered animal breeding facilities, including 1,764 dog breeding (Luplow, Lyle Muller and Jacob) In order to help the cause against puppy mills, I would strongly recommend to help and volunteer for APHIS inspections due to the fact that they need more. In doing so more abusive puppy mills would be shut down and more puppy mills would have better conditions for the dogs. Another huge way you could help the cause against puppy mills is not buying your animal from pet shops, instead buy your animals from places like your local Humane Society or local pet shelter. If you adopt a pet not only saving its life but you are also fighting against the puppy mills, because that would affect their revenue. To help I would highly recommend you donate to a local animal shelter so that they have the ability to keep the animals. By donating to a local shelter or Humane Society that would help bring food and water to the animals there. The most important thing you can do to help out the cause is help its awareness. Let people know that these dogs in puppy mills are being mistreated and have no voice to help save them. Let people know that these poor animals are enslaved for there whole life and that they never get to feel the love of a real owner. Just help spread the message. In conclusion, there is a puppy mill epidemic going on in the United States, and there are ways to stop it. You just need to go out there and try to make a change, by volunteering, adopting through animal shelters, and donating to local organizations and the Humane Society of the United States. So go out there and help those poor puppies. Daddario 5 Work Cited Mel. Puppy Mills: Do You Know What Size Cage Would Your Dog Live In? I  No Dog About It Blog. N.p., 07 Oct. 2012. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. A Closer Look at Puppy  ASPCA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Luplow, Lyle Muller and Jacob. Only 120 Inspectors Check U.S. Dog Breeding  Des Moines Register. N.p., 03 Jan. 2015. Web. 16 April. 2017. USDA Animal Care  USDA APHIS USDA Animal Care Overview. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. About Puppy  The Puppy Mill Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.