Running head: BENEFITS OF GMO 1 Project 3: Benefits of GMO on health Smirnou Stanislau University of South Florida BENEFITS OF GMO 2 Outline I. Introduction Developments in biology allowed scientists to modify the genomes of organisms and that made possible potential improvement of food sources, modification of human pathogens, and other organisms to benefit human health. Years of artificial selection are now replaced by the months or genetic engineering; and a growing number of bioengineering techniques outcompete old methods of artificial selection and allow more advanced improvement of organisms. Genetically modified organisms are beneficial for human health as they can be used for food supplementation, for the treatment of diseases and genetic disorders. II. Counterargument Many people believe that GMOs are harmful and that combinations of genes from different species cannot occur in nature or in traditional or that are no enough evidence that GMOs do not harm our GMOs 2017). Even though those points are not correct, many people become mislead by that information and develop their opinion based weak evidence. III. Genetically Modified organisms (GMOs) are beneficial for human health, because they provide vital micro and macro nutrients that are necessary for humans to avoid some diseases such as vitamin A deficiency blindness. a. the Provitamin A Biosynthetic Pathway into (Carotenoid-Free) Rice by Ye and colleagues. b. Increasing concentration of provitamine A by the genetic modification (GM) of rice prevents vitamin A deficiency (VAD) blindness. BENEFITS OF GMO 3 IV. Genetically modified organisms can be used to treat different genetic disorders. GM viruses are effective agents for gene therapy of hemophilia. a. therapy for by Murphy and High. b. Genetic engineering of viruses and incorporation of a correct version of gene can be a potential treatment of genetic disorders such as hemophilia B. V. GM bacteria a. of therapeutically modified bacteria into gut microbiota inhibits by Zhongyi and colleagues. b. Genetically modified bacteria can be incorporated into human microbiome to treat obesity. VI. Conclusion BENEFITS OF GMO 4 Project 3: Benefits of GMO on health Developments in biology allowed scientists to modify the genomes of organisms and that made possible potential improvement of food sources, modification of human pathogens, and other organisms to benefit human health. Years of artificial selection are now replaced by months of genetic engineering, and a growing number of bioengineering techniques outcompete old methods of artificial selection. Bioengineering techniques allow scientists to make more advanced improvement of organisms and during the last decade, many advances were made that allowed scientist to use genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in many fields. However, arguably the most important sphere where GMOs are used is the human health. Genetically modified organisms are beneficial for human health, as they can be used for food supplementation, the treatment of diseases and genetic disorders. Many people believe that GMOs are harmful and that combinations of genes from different species cannot occur in nature or in traditional GMOs 2017). Some also believe that are no enough evidence that GMOs do not harm our (ibid). Even though the credibility of those points is arguable, many people become mislead by that information and develop their opinion based on weak evidence. During the last decade, many articles were published trying to show harmful effects of GMOs on human body. However, most of those articles used fraudulent science to support their claims and authors were denied to publish their articles in respectful scientific journals (Saletan, 2015). Even though some articles that show the harmful effect of GMOs on human body were published in the peer reviewed journals, most of them were retracted after the revision of research methodology. Many people are still using those articles as a reference to support their arguments and spread false BENEFITS OF GMO 5 information about GMOs despite the fact that there are no scientific evidences that GMOs can negatively affect the human health. Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) are beneficial for human health, because they can solve a problem of malnutrition in the populations with limited diets. There are many diseases caused by the lack of supplements in the food and most of them are prevalent in the developing countries were people are not able to afford diverse diets rich in vitamins and other biologically active substances. One type of disease caused by the lack of vitamin A in the diet is vitamin A deficiency blindness (VAD). According to Ye and colleagues, vitamin A deficiency blindness is a common condition in some parts of the world and around a quarter of a million people in Southeast Asia are going blind each year due to lack of vitamin A supplementation. Scientists estimated that around 124 million children worldwide have VAD and proposed a solution to that problem. They created methods of genetic modification of rice that allow to increase the production of provitamin A in the rice endosperm. Ligation of bacterial version of gene that can catalyze production of from its precursor helps to enrich rice in pro- vitamin A and solve the problem of vitamin A deficiency (Ye et al., 2000, p. 303). Many other papers proposing solutions for malnutrition problems exist and their number is growing significanly. The potential benefits of GM techiques in the context of the constantly growing population and a changing climat is imposible to overestimate. The future survival of human species might depend on genetically modifed food sources. Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) can also be used to treat different disease. There are many described human diseases and new methods of treatmant are been developed every year. One of the most rapidly developing approaches for human treatment is the modification of pathogens that cause diseases. Those methods are especially usefull when a BENEFITS OF GMO 6 disease is caused by a bacteria. Nowadays obesity is a global problem and the development of theraputic techniques that will allow us to prevent its complecations and treat this condition is crucial. One particular method was developed by Zhongyi and colleagues. It describes a way to use GM bacteria to change human microbiome and treat obesity. The study provides evidences in the effectiveness of their method. Modification of pathogens showed a positive result in experiments and indicated decrease in body weight accumulation and adiposity (Zhongyi et al., 2014, p. 3391). That research is only the first step in the development of bioengineering methods of pathogens modification and it shows why GNOs can be beneficial for human health. Lastly Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) are beneficial for human health because they can be used to treat different genetic disorders. There are many described genetic disorders in human populations and usually they are impossible to treat. approach for their treatment is the replacement therapy which provides the patient with the substance that cannot be synthesized in their body because of a defective version of an important gene (Muenzer et al., p. 466). However, new approaches for the treatment of genetic disorders were developed due to advances in genetic engineering techniques. Human viruses can be modified to target specific cells and insert the correct versions of genes inside cells with defective gene version. Murphy and colleagues described the first clinical trial of hemophilia treatment with GM viruses. Hemophilia is characterized by the mutation in the gene that encodes blood clotting factor and without proper working gene, blood cannot coagulate properly. Clotting factor effected by the mutation is produced in the liver and thus, viruses that specifically target liver cells can be used for the treatment. Genetically modified viruses are able to target liver cells and introduce the correct version of the gene inside the liver cells. In doing this the organ can produce a certain amount of blood clotting factor which significantly decrease symptoms in hemophilic patients BENEFITS OF GMO 7 (Murphy & High, 2008, p. 480). Treatment of hemophilia is not the only genetic disorder where GMOs can be used for the treatment and every year the list of genetic disorders that can be treated with GM viruses is increasing. Genetically Modified Organisms are beneficial for human health and can be used as a treatment for many diseases and disorders. GM plans are good targets for enrichment and supplementation with vitamins and other micronutrients that can solve the problem of malnutrition in poor countries. Further modification of human pathogens is a new approach for the treatment of human diseases and disorders that can potentially become a key to cure of genetic disorders and other conditions that are nowadays considered incurable. Therefore, bioengineering techniques should continue to be developed and more researches should be sponsored to solve problems described in the paper. BENEFITS OF GMO 8 References Are GMOs harmful? (2017). Retrieved April 3, 2017 from http://www.debate.org/opinions/are gmos-harmful-yes-or-helpful-no. Muenzer, J., Wraith, J. E., Beck, M., Giugliani, R., Harmatz, P., Eng, C. M., ... & Vijayaraghavan, S. (2006). A phase II/III clinical study of enzyme replacement therapy with idursulfase in mucopolysaccharidosis II (Hunter syndrome). Genetics in Medicine, 8(8), 465-473. Murphy, S. L., & High, K. A. (2008). Gene therapy for hemophilia. British Journal of Hematology, 140(5), http://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2141.2007.06942.x Saletan, William. The Misleading War on GMOs: The Food Is Safe. The Rhetoric Is  Slate Magazine. N.p., 15 July 2015. Web. 26 Apr. 2017. Ye, X., Al-Babili, S., A., Zhang, J., Lucca, P., Beyer, P., & Potrykus, I. (2000). Engineering the provitamin A biosynthetic pathway into (carotenoid-free) rice endosperm. Science, 287(5451), 303-305. Zhongyi, C., Lilu, G., Yongqin, Z., Walzem, R. L., Pendergast, J. S., Printz, R. L., & ... Davies, S. S. (2014). Incorporation of therapeutically modified bacteria into gut microbiota inhibits obesity. Journal of Clinical Investigation, 124(8), 3391-3406. doi:10.1172 JCI72517. BENEFITS OF GMO 9