1 Rishi Gusam Harley Campbell ENC 1102 02/27/17 Wildlife conservation Poaching has become a major issue in the 21st century, resulting in various species becoming endangered or extinct. been an issue that I have always been against, with majority of the population sided against poaching. Unfortunately, this subject get as much physical support that is required, since more and more animals are becoming endangered and extinct. The World Wide Fund for nature (WWF), is an organization, that promotes the conservation of animals, implementing solutions that benefit animals and the ecosystem that they live in. Being an organization that supports animal conservation, they are strongly against poaching, and are taking the actions to prevent it, by working with smaller organizations. The World Wide Fund for nature, developed in 1961 in Morges, Switzerland , by a group of wildlife conservationists.They have always been supporters for animal conservation, taking action to thwart the actions of poachers and those who threaten the survival of various animal species. Composed by wildlife conservationists and enthusiasts, they are against the poaching industry, disagreeing with claims that support the poaching industry. They work with various smaller conservation groups, offering professional and financial support, to further their impact on conservation. 2 The actions of the WWF enough to protect our animals. A recent statistic from PBS states that Every 20 minutes, the world adds another 3,500 human lives but loses one or more entire species of animal or plant life - at least 27,000 species per (African Conservancy). It shows that the human population is drastically increasing, at the expense of losing an animal or plant species. The loss of species impacts the effectiveness of biodiversity. Biodiversity in a large scale, is essentially the variety of life in the planet. Without biodiversity the world would be a very plain and boring place. But more importantly, it allows us to have a variety of options in terms of food and materials to use. Imagine living in a world, where the only type of meat you can get is chicken. I bet that you would get fed up with chicken very quickly, and become vegetarian. What if the only tree in the world was a balsa tree? There would be no more wooden buildings or houses, and there would be no more fruits to enjoy. With biodiversity, it allows humans to research and make medical discoveries. Imagine if the bacteria, bacilli, went extinct before Alexander Fleming could research it. Penicillin exist , and hundreds of millions of people would be dead, from something as basic as a common cold. Animals also serve as inspiration for products that aid humans. For example, researchers developed a surgical staple based on porcupine quills. Not only do animals help with medical discoveries, but they serve as inspiration for designs for various other technology. Velcro was invented because researchers looked at how plant burrs stuck to dog hair. In Japan, engineers redesigned the bullet train to resemble a beak. When kingfishers dive into the water, they make any noise or splash water, thanks to the design of the beak ( Web ecoist). If a certain species went extinct, there 3 would be no way of telling how helpful the animal might have been. The opportunity to find out would perish, along with the animal species. With biodiversity and the preservation of animal species, it introduces a way to make money. Ecotourism generates around US $453 billion a year, also making it one of the largest employers in the world (Ecotourism). This clearly shows that animals are more important alive, rather than dead. It is a win-win scenario for both people and animals alike. Poachers are under the impression that animal parts can fetch the most money, in the quickest manner. Although animal parts, such as rhino horns or elephant ivory, can fetch around 60K per pound (washington times), the amount of money that could be made from keeping such animals alive, make it worth it. Not only does ecotourism help protect different animal species, but also helps foster the economy of the community that the center is located at. Community members can be directly involved working as guides, park maintenance, etc. It also allows other jobs not directly related to the center, to develop. People can open up accommodations for the tourist, people can make arts and crafts to sell, or open up restaurants to feed the tourists. It not only supports the locals and animals, but also introduces the tourist to the cultures and traditions of the locals. The alternative option for work, prevents locals from over fishing or land clearing for farming. Ecotourism also allows for the development of facilities such as drinkable water wells, new roads, electricity, health clinics, etc. Indirectly, Ecotourism helps bring awareness to injustices and violation of human rights in various third-world countries. When tourists visit the facilities, it exposes how the locals are treated by the government. If they are treated poorly, visitors from western governments can place pressure for change. With ecotourism, it creates a lasting 4 impression on its visitors, ingraining the ideas of conservation and shows the importance of the wildlife to the world. Despite all the benefits and advantages that come with animal conservation, there is still not enough efforts being made. Only if we all come together and see to that this issue becomes resolved, is the only solution to this crisis. Direct support, such as volunteering for organizations who support wildlife conservation is the best method of supporting the cause. Even if you are not passionate about animal conservation, I still urge you to consider the option. There are a lot of overseas opportunities to volunteer, in places like Africa, South america, Asia, etc. Coming from personal experience, volunteering gives you a sense of satisfaction that cannot be achieved any other way. It gives you the opportunity to look back and be proud of yourself for supporting a population (animals) whom without your help, would not survive. Not only do you support a great cause, but you get to experience the culture and enjoy the country that you are staying at. It also looks amazing on resumes to say that you volunteered abroad, for a cause that is bigger than yourself. For many people, volunteering directly just possible. Thankfully, that the only option to support wildlife conservation. Organizations, such as WWF, are non-profit, and are always in need of financial aid to support the various projects all around the world. Donations are always great, no matter the amount of money donated. You may think that donating is a waste, since you know where you money is going? If you donate to the WWF, you can refer to there website and see exactly what projects are being done, all thanks to the donations received. Despite all the efforts being made to protect our wildlife, countless number of species are going extinct every year. Without the support of the general public, many more will 5 go down, and before you know it, it will be too late. Remember the first time you went to the zoo. Think of all the wild and diverse animals that were there. If we act now, those animals will not exist, making the world a much more boring place to live. That is if we do survive, if all wildlife goes extinct. 6 Work cited Brilliant Bio-Design: 14 Animal-Inspired  N.p., 30 Mar. 2011. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. <http://webecoist.momtastic.com/2011/01/14/brilliant-bio-design-14-animal-inspired-inve ntions/>. Consulting group, ARA. ECOTOURISM STATISTICAL FACT  STATISTICAL FACT The International Ecotourism Society, 2000. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. <http://www.active-tourism.com/factsEcotourism1.pdf>. Harper, Jennifer. $60K a pound: Illegal rhino horn now declared more valuable than gold, diamonds and  Washington The Washington Times, 17 May 2015. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, www.worldwildlife.org/initiatives/wildlife-conservation. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. What is  Wildlife Web. 17 Apr. 2017. <https://www.nwf.org/Wildlife/Wildlife-Conservation/Biodiversity.aspx>.