Adams 1 Patrick Adams Mr. Bob Botkin ENC 1102 18 April 2017 A Call to Action against Steroid Users Human beings, as a whole, tend to fear change. This leads to missed opportunities to change the world for the better. Other times people will not take the opportunity to change the world, because they think they cannot make a difference. A problem that is not being acted upon enough is the steroid users and their being considered for the Hall of Fame. This problem, like many others, is not one dimensional, and has far reaching consequences that are not always clear. This paper along with the accompanying website patrickadams7.wixsite.com/website will expound on the issue and its consequences on the game, on why this issue is important, and how to go about solving this issue. The issue with considering steroid users for the Hall of Fame, highest honor, is multi-dimensional, and complex. Steroid users are just one factor in the declining popularity of the sport and steroid users should be punished accordingly in consideration for the Hall of Fame. Another reason is that for a good decade and a half it ruined the fairness in baseball and wrongly influenced multiple generations. It ruined the even playing field for players who played the game fairly and with integrity as they often lost their job to someone who was cheating. For example, it is as if someone was up for a promotion and they have worked very hard their whole life to get to that point only to lose the promotion to someone who faked their resume. Understandably, if the resume was found out to be fake the person who faked their resume would be fired, so why can players who abused steroids just get slapped on the wrist and let go? Steroid abuse was Adams 2 heavily abused for over a decade. For example, there were four pitchers: Dan Naulty, Brett Roberts, Keith Linebarger, and Kevin Legault all with similar attributes but only Naulty made it to the majors (Verducci, To Cheat or not to Cheat, si.com). Naulty was the only one out of the four who used steroids. The odds of making it to the majors are ten to one without the imbalance of steroids and when you add in steroids the chances for the clean players to reach the majors become almost astronomical. Steroid users did not just cheat the game they cheated the players with actual integrity, whom played the game cleanly. To reward those who took steroids by even considering them for the Hall of Fame is a slight towards the clean players who made it to the majors and the ones who put their heart and soul into the game only to have their chance be taken away from them by steroid users. Every year the Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) vote on who should get into the Hall of Fame and every year Steroid users are considered for the Hall of Fame. The voters give various reasoning for voting for these players but none of them consider the consequences of voting for these players to highest honor. Whenever they vote for the steroid users they are giving their tacit permission for not only professional players but also young athletes. The reason for this is simple; former U.S Senator and Hall of Famer Jim Bunning said it best major league players like it or not, they serve as role models to our youth . . . If players who cheat to gain entrance into most elite club are given a free pass, it sends a terrible message to our young athletes that it is OK to and the numbers back up his statement (Bunning, Baseball Great Jim Bunning: Steroid Users Have No Place in Hall of Fame, usnews.com).According to the National Institute of Drug Abuse about 6% of young athletes use steroids although information suggests more widespread (NIDA, Why do people abuse anabolic steroids, drugabuse.gov) Initially the statistics are Adams 3 misleading and do not seem to suggest the problem is as bad as it is until the medical effects that abusing steroids can have on developing bodies are considered. According to Dr. Mohamadi, an FDA medical officer, young men can suffer from of the testes or the development of breast while young women may suffer from irregularities and development of masculine qualities such as facial and body while both may suffer from mood swings, acne, high blood pressure to name a few (FDA, Consumer Updates - Teens and Steroids: A Dangerous Combo, fda.gov). It does not stop there as stopping steroids abruptly can lead to teens committing or contemplating suicide. The story of Taylor Hooton 17 is a prime example who, after using steroids for about a year and then quitting, entered a deep depression and ultimately took his own life (Leung, The Kid Next Door, cbsnews.com). All of these factors combined make it clear that steroid abusers being considered for the Hall of Fame can have far-reaching and unimaginable consequences, consequences that often go unnoticed by Major League Baseball, the players, or the sportswriters. It is like they are horses who are wearing blinders that only allow them to see ahead of them essentially limiting their perspective. They need to remove the blinders and see how their decisions are impacting the athletes and the sport as a whole and not just the Major League. The issue of steroid users and its consequences affect everyone, not just people who are invested in baseball or those who think they cannot affect the issue in any meaningful way. In fact, anyone who lives in a baseball town is already involved in the issue without knowing it. For the players, coaches, sportswriters, and the involvement in the issue is apparent for if the consideration of steroid users for the Hall of Fame continues to decrease the popularity all of their salaries get decreased because of decreased overall profit. Then there is the worst case scenario; this issue could lead to end as a sport which cost everyone directly involved Adams 4 in baseball their job. For the normal everyday person the involvement is not so apparent, but whenever a new stadium is built the city pays for the cost and the city pays for it by taxing its citizens. For example, New York City gave the go-ahead on building two new baseball parks, Yankee Stadium and Citi Field, for a combined 2.5 billion dollars (Cohen, How Stadium Construction Costs Reached the Billions, athleticbusiness.com). If baseball was to suddenly end the citizens of such cities would be on the hook for massive amount of debt. Everyone is already invested in this issue because it affects everyone in different ways. Also everyone can help solve the issue in their own way. The players, coaches, and the MLB can take a more hardline stance and make people understand that using steroids is never acceptable. The fans can help put pressure on the sport to realize the diverse consequences of considering steroid users for the Hall of Fame. In conclusion, this problem needs to be solved because: of the effects that abusing steroids had on the game past and present, the effects and influence that steroid users had on the youth of America, and that considering steroid users threatens the very life of the game. Everyone needs to act to stop steroid users from being considered for the Hall of Fame, each in their own way. The people directly involved in the sport need to take a more hardline stance against steroid users for the sake of their careers so that the public and the sportswriters know exactly where the game stands on the steroid issue. The fans need to help create pressure by boycotting or signing petitions or refusing to read writers who vote for steroid users because the steroid users influenced a generation who wrongly thought it was okay to use steroid users to accomplish their dream. Adams 5 Works Cited Bunning, Jim. Baseball Great Jim Bunning: Steroid Users Have No Place in Hall of  Usnews.com. US News and World Report, 21 July 2009. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Cohen, Andrew. How Stadium Construction Costs Reached the  Athletic Business. Athletic Business, July 2012. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Leung, Rebecca. The Kid Next  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 21 July 2004. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Verducci, Tom. TO CHEAT OR NOT TO  SI.com. Sports Illustrated, 04 June 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Consumer Updates - Teens and Steroids: A Dangerous  U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page. Office of the Commissioner, n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <https://www.fda.gov/ForConsumers/ConsumerUpdates/ucm373014.htm>. Why do people abuse anabolic  NIDA. National Institute of Drug Abuse, n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/research-reports/anabolic-steroid- abuse/why-do-people-abuse-anabolic-steroids>.