Johnson 1 Liam Johnson Ms. Campbell ENC1102 April 18, 2017 Physician assisted suicide in the U.S. Physician assisted suicide is defined as by a patient by means or information (as a drug prescription or indication of the lethal dosage) provided by a physician aware of the (The New England Journal of Medicine 1991). This topic is not to be taken lightly and can be uncomfortable to discuss but there is an increasing need in the U.S. to discuss its possible use. Because of its grave nature, physician assisted suicide is often overlooked and rarely discussed as a serious end of life health care option, resulting in misunderstanding and a lack of knowledge on the subject. This topic is unique in that everyone will experience death and can therefore empathize on some level, but only a few will be placed in a situation where physician assisted suicide would be a viable end of life health care option. This issue may seem too goliath to overcome but by educating the public and policymakers we can not only help people better understand physician assisted suicide but ratify policies allowing its use, ultimately stimulating nationwide improvements in end of life care. The concept of physician assisted suicide is not new and is currently practiced in four U.S. states, Quebec and several European countries (Sullivan 2014). The medical field is advancing at an unprecedented rate along with the amount of health care options available however, for those who cannot be healed many are stuck in a limbo between life and death. Life is what we hold most sacred but in certain conditions out of your control life may become too Johnson 2 painful, impossible or unbearable at that point it may seem like abuse or even a curse, the static end of life care options available limits the quality of life that these individuals have. A more common and less abrasive example of physician assisted suicide is the withdrawal of life support. In many cases the power of decision is based on whether the patient is likely to make a meaningful recovery without prolonged suffering but could also be influenced by factors such as ethical, economic, cultural, legal, and the overall wishes of the family (Morgan 2015). While the withdrawal of life support is a frequent practice that is accepted, and understood the use of physician assisted suicide is still stigmatized and is very rarely considered as a viable end of life care option. Why is this the case, while each of the two end of life care options are different the result is ultimately the same and usually for the same reasons. The most notable difference between the two is the individual that makes the decision, generally the only person who can make the decision to withdrawal life support is someone other than yourself. The majority of organizations that support physician assisted suicide exist primarily to expand the freedom of terminally ill patients so that they can make their own end of life decisions which includes how they die. greatest human freedom is to live and die according to our own desires and this is the doctrine that one of the largest advocates for physician assisted suicide in the U.S. bases itself on (Death with Dignity). America tends to portray itself as the embodiment of freedom giving society the freedom to live according to their own desires and beliefs however, this does not carry over into death. As a nation, we have conquered many feats deemed impossible and have shared our achievements throughout the world, as a result we must never become content. We must push the limits for what right and in the best interest for the ones we love, by allowing a social taboo like the word suicide to immediately dictate how we feel about a Johnson 3 subject we lose sight of what is most important. Social stigmas associated with suicide contribute to misunderstandings and a lack of knowledge about physician assisted suicide neglecting suffering individuals from receiving all the end of life care options available. Everyone should care and be engaged in this topic, no one plans for their life to be filled with such pain and agony reducing their quality of life so much that it feels like an unbearable curse that can only be lifted by the blissful kiss of death. By providing a wider variety of end of life care options it would grant individuals the ability to avoid an inevitable painful and repugnant death by giving them a end of (Goel 2008). The primary mission that physician assisted suicide groups have is not necessarily to promote physician assisted suicide, but to stimulate nationwide improvements in end of life care in general. This is in an effort to expand the freedoms of all competent terminally ill Americans to make their own end of life decisions, including how they die. In order for any of this to be possible the general public needs to be educated on what physician assisted suicide is and its applicability in our society as a viable end of life care option. Regardless of whether or not you support physician assisted suicide it is important to talk about it because we all have a stake in this topic and by discussing it you are increasing the amount of people who actually understand what physician assisted suicide is and the possible places where it fits within our society. If you do support the use of physician assisted suicide or would like to know more there are several organizations such as Death with Dignity with websites filled with information about every facet of physician assisted suicide there is to think of. Additionally, many of these organizations have an entire section devoted to how you can help their cause including everything from signing a petition to donating money which goes to helping pay for legal fees. Another way you can take action for this cause is to tell your policy makers how you feel, you do not necessarily have to Johnson 4 write to your senator but local representatives also need to know how their community feels because it is often not discussed. Just by simply starting a conversation about physician assisted suicide to anyone helps to better educate the public and your community about this little talked known issue facing our society. Having a solid understanding about physician assisted suicide is important however, having an open mind willing to try and understand this topic is equally if not more important. It is vital that we stop shrouding physician assisted suicide in a dark evil cloak and approach it as what it truly is, a legitimate option for a dignified death. The more this topic is discussed the greater the chances are that individuals who could use this end of life care have the ability to choose for themselves. This issue is not going to disappear any time soon and the sooner we educate each other the sooner we can progress as a nation, expanding freedoms not only for Americans in life but the freedoms in death as well. Johnson 5 Works Cited Goel, Vaibhav. - A Dignified End of Academia.edu, International NGO, Dec. 2008, Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. Morgan, Jules. Do You Decide When to Withdraw Life The Lancet Respiratory Medicine, vol. 3, no. 6, 2015, pp. doi:10.1016/s2213-2600(15)00189-7. Merriam-Webster, Merriam-Webster, www.merriam- webster.com/dictionary/physician-assisted%20suicide. Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. Sullivan, Nora. Legalizes Euthanasia, Compromises Charlotte Lozier Institute, Charlotte Lozier Institute, 10 June 2014, lozierinstitute.org/325/. Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. Death With Dignity, www.deathwithdignity.org/take-action/. Accessed 18 Apr. 2017.