Cruz 1 c Alan Cruz Dr. Karen Hanson ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Media Violence Violence is everywhere. For over a million humans have hunted for food, killed animals and have taken their fur for warmth. Many would agree that the act of hunting is violent and gruesome, despite that it is done for survival. Unlike hunting video games, television shows and movies have shown to raise the aggression, mood swings and decision making. Currently, today 99% of households own a television compared to the where only 10% of homes did (Beresin). Imagine every child that has their own room also has their own television. While this may be true parents still need to be informed because many parents do not know what their kids are watching nor how it is affecting them in long run. In order to fix and take on this situation, parents need to go online and do more research on what shows are being televised and at what age should children and families be watching PG to R rated movies together. To add on, nurses are also willing to help those who want to be informed and help intervene on issue that has been going on for some time. Children are vulnerable and parents need to be informed. According to Mary Muscari, the time they reach 18, American children have seen 16,000 murders and 200,000 acts of Musacari noticed the amount of times an average child has seen either a murder scene or the act of violence which is more than expected. The children that are watching a tremendous amount of violence are facing many problems and issues such as aggression that affects their way of life. For example, reports state that perpetrators of recent school shootings were exposed to a great amount of violent media violence: Advice for Cruz 2 c Furthermore, children are taking what they learn from games, shows and movies and bringing them to real life. were instructed that they must shoot and kill the opponents to pass through each corridor. Without killing the opponent, no participant could pass to another corridor since the opponent would shoot back and kill the participant in the game. Whenever participants shot and killed an opponent, screams of pain were heard in two of the experimental conditions. Participants could hear all other sound effects (e.g., footsteps, shooting) regardless of Eui Jun) Ultimately, children are becoming aggressive thinkers. If a child keeps bullying another child, the same child may take matters into their own hands and stop the bully for good. Instead of telling a teacher or parent and realizing the other child is the one with an issue. In the experiment listed above no player decided to hold their fire. Their morality was truly proven in this experiment. However, many have heard of monkey see monkey do. Another aspect that is brought out from media is product placement (Biocca, Bohil and Jeong). Product placement may not seem like a serious issue but these broadcasters and video game designers are making a tremendous amount of money off children and their families. For instance, children are becoming more addicted to material objects. Once they see their favorite video game or television character use anything that is name brand or interesting they want. Due to this, children feel they are in entitled to material objects and more. Once the target marketed children are advertised to, they are more likely to consume branding associated to their demographic. To add on, playing video games and watching television can create an addictive personality even without the particular products being placed religiously. For instance, many scientists compared media violence to smoking cigarettes Video Cruz 3 c Games and As some may know one cigarette is not the cause of cancer but making it a habit will. The same applies with video games and television. Despite the fact that one is a drug and the other is not, they both stimulate the same part of the brain and release dopamine which is the pleasure hormone. Throughout the life span, if they are being brought up by playing these games, eventually they will be curious and want to try the real thing in order to gain either more or the same thrill. On the other hand, aggression is one of issues being addressed in society with media violence. Another issue that many do not hear of is ADHD. ADHD is typically genetic and passed down from your ancestors. Due to certain claims in the press stating that television programs and video games are too violent in nature, there has been and increasing in interest whether violent media is eliciting ADHD related behaviors (Nikkelen, Piotrowski, Valkenburg, and Vossen). This theory came about due to the low baseline arousal in children which is usually caused by ADHD related behavior. A normal baseline arousal level is to adjust for high continuous high stimulation. Low baseline arousal explains how people with ADHD and antisocial disorder try to stimulated excessively in order to transcend their state of low arousal. Media violence is extremely hard to control. Media is everywhere trying to get you to make one decision rather than another that could be more rational. Some would agree that not everything in television, video games and movies is strictly appropriate and some things are just to gruesome, violent and gory for human eye. Most of us do not have much control on what children watch and what is being broadcasted but parents do. Media violence is taken upon the offense of the user and many may not be offensive to everyone (Coyne and Callister) One wat to approach this problem is by frequently emailing and getting the attention of the Federal Communications Commission(FCC). The FCC regulates television, radio and more. If that does not work, this is when parents play a big role. One strategy that is being enforced is media Cruz 4 c which are just strategies to help parents guide their media use. There are two ways parents can approach their children. Which are either explaining to the children how bad the media can be or just restricting them completely. Both have different affects but are better than not doing anything. Overall, Parents tend to protect their children from all types of drugs such as alcohol, cigarettes, marijuana and even pornography. If parents are making sure their children are not doing any of these bad things, why not stop children from playing role player games that are graphic and trying to just kill the enemy. Cruz 5 c Works Cited Coyne, Sarah M., et al. Media Violence and Judgments of Offensiveness: A Quantitative and Qualitative  Psychology of Popular Media Culture, vol. 5, no. 4, Oct. 2016, pp. 372-389. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1037/ppm0000073. Eui Jun, Jeong, et al. Brand Logo Placement in Violent  Journal of Advertising, vol. 40, no. 3, Fall2011, pp. 59-72. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=buh&AN=65089179&site=eds-live. Media Violence  Parents Television Council - Home. N.p., 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <http://w2.parentstv.org/main/Campaigns/mv.aspx>. Muscari, Mary. Media Violence: Advice for Parents  MedScape. WebMD, 2002. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Nikkelen, Sanne, et al. Media Violence and ADHD-Related Behaviors: The Role of Parental  Journal of Broadcasting & Electronic Media, vol. 60, no. 4, Dec. 2016, pp. 657-675. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/08838151.2016.1234476.