Onwuanaibe 1 Nikki Onwuanaibe ENC 1101 Mr. Nusspickel 30 April 2017 Outline I. Within the last few decades racism within the justice system has not changed for the better, leading to disparities in both the perception and treatment of the members of black and white communities. Recent social awareness programs, such as, the Black Lives Matter Movement have amplified these disparities and brought them to light. would assume that the civil rights movement would have equalized black to white prison admissions, yet to the contrary, prison admissions have become more racially disparate. They have increased from 2:1 thirty years before the civil rights movement to 7:1 thirty years after (Van Cleve 2). This shows a relapse in the stride for equality for the black community. Considering recent events, there seems to be clear evidence that the justice system stereotypes African Americans more frequently than whites. This is not a new issue; it dates to 400 years of oppression and will continue to be a problem for years to come. II. Per Debate.org many people feel as though the justice system does not stereotype blacks more than whites. They say that the black culture teaches African Americans that the justice system is out to get them and, that they are above the law when it comes to dealing with the authorities. Some went as far as to say that Blacks are taught to be disrespectful as a sign of manhood and that whites are the ones that truly face racism. A. Whites experience racism, media is corrupt, black culture teaches disrespect. B. Racial profiling is well known and documented. Onwuanaibe 2 III. The percentage of African Americans behind bars is greater than that of whites. A. African American youths hold a higher percentage within cell walls than they do in the general population. B. But, in 2011, violent crime arrests by whites was 59.4%, and for blacks it was 38.3%, but whites represent 77.9% of population, black only 15.4%. For homicides that rate is 49.7% black, and 48% white. C. There is statistical evidence that proves African Americans are incarcerated more than whites. D. Clincher: Americans aged ten to seventeen comprise about 15% of their age group in the population, yet they represent about 25% of all juvenile arrests, 30% of referrals to juvenile court, 40% of all incarcerated juveniles and close to 60% of waivers to adult criminal (Crutchfield 17) IV. Crime is not to be considered a Black Problem A. Crime belongs to everyone, not a specific group based on physical appearance and societal views. B. To be disrespectful and I think encouraged by black authorities such as pastors and civil rights leaders and parents and it comes with tragic results and creates an inability to function in society. C. The term crime is not dictated towards a specific group of people, crime is actively disobeying laws. D. crime is perceived as a black  the means by which the problem is addressed and the resulting punitiveness of the approach serve to exacerbate societal (Mauer Onwuanaibe 3 figures are well known, but shocking nonetheless: one of every eight black males in the 25-34 age group is locked up on any given day and 32% of black males born today can expect to spend time in a state or federal prison if current trends (Mauer 2). V. Unfair trials and convictions between blacks and whites. A. The amount of crimes being committed by these two groups does not line up with their sentencing and punishments. B. Blacks commit more serious crimes C. Statistically, black people are more likely to be sent to jail than white people, but they are also more likely to commit petty crimes. D. American youths were more likely than Whites to have been arrested multiple times, with rates of 3.1% versus (Kakade, et al 9). youths, however, had higher rates of substance use than did African American youths. Reported drug-selling activity was also more common among White than among African American youths; this racial difference was statistically (Kakade et al 9). VI. Conclusion: A. Summary of main points or reasons B. Restate thesis statement. C. Personal comment or a call to action. Onwuanaibe 4 Does the Justice System Target Blacks More than Whites? Within the last few decades racism within the justice system has not changed for the better, leading to disparities in both the perception and treatment of the members of black and white communities. Recent social awareness programs, such as the Black Lives Matter Movement, have amplified these disparities and brought them to light. In Van article Criminal Justice Through Lenses: A Call to Examine The Mutual Constitution Of Race And Criminal Justice, she states, would assume that the civil rights movement would have equalized black to white prison admissions, yet to the contrary, prison admissions have become more racially disparate. The black to white ratio of arrests have increased from 2:1 thirty years before the civil rights movement to 7:1 thirty years (2). This shows a relapse in the stride for equality for the black community. Considering recent events, there seems to be clear, evidence that the justice system stereotypes African Americans more frequently than whites. Per Debate.org many people feel as though the justice system does not stereotype blacks more than whites. They say that the black culture teaches African Americans that the justice system is out to get them, and that they are above the law when it comes to dealing with the authorities. They believe that Blacks are taught to be disrespectful as a sign of manhood, and that whites are the ones that truly face racism. Many went as far as to say that segregation is over, that if blacks feel as though they are being treated poorly they should go back to Africa. Another said that Blacks are treated exactly as they are supposed to be treated. They said if you have a high IQ and someone said, a car was stolen automatically assume the criminal was black. The reasoning behind why people feel the way they do is sometimes hard to understand. How can you tell Blacks to go back to Africa when they were forced into slavery and brought to the U.S? Racism is alive and well and just because segregation was abolished does not mean people Onwuanaibe 5 are right in their ways of thinking. If anything, Black culture teaches Blacks to be strong and stand up for their rights when dealing with authorities. Mothers of black lecture them and are afraid for them to go out because they are perceived to be targeted by the justice system. The imprisonment statistical ratios seem to validate this fear. The percentage of African Americans behind bars is greater than that of whites. African American youths hold a higher percentage within cell walls than they do in the general population. The irony is that in 2011, crime arrests by whites was 59.4%, and for blacks it was 38.3%, but whites represent 77.9% of population, black only 15.4%. For homicides that rate is 49.7% black, and 48% (Debate.org). How is it that blacks commit less crimes and are arrested more frequently by authorities? This statistical evidence tends to prove that African Americans are incarcerated more than whites. Americans aged ten to seventeen comprise about 15% of their age group in the population, yet they represent about 25% of all juvenile arrests, 30% of referrals to juvenile court, 40% of all incarcerated juveniles and close to 60% of waivers to adult criminal (Crutchfield 17). Authorities have preconditioned biases to associate people of color with criminal activity and find them guilty of stricter charges when they are faced in court. The justice system has adapted to believing crime is perceived as a black  How the problem is addressed and the resulting punitiveness of the approach serve to exacerbate societal (Mauer 1). Crime should never be considered a black problem, crime is defined as illegal act for which someone can be punished by the (Merriam Webster). Crime belongs to everyone, and is not designated to a specific group based on physical appearance and societal views. Many believe that the reason crime is associated with blacks is because black authorities such as pastors, civil rights leaders, and parents encourage Onwuanaibe 6 disrespectfulness and that it comes with tragic results and creates an inability to function in society (Debate.org). The justice system poses unfair bias against blacks not because they commit crimes, but because blacks have been stereotyped with criminal activity as a perception. In article, Race, Class, And the Development Of Criminal Justice  He explains that, figures are well known, but shocking nonetheless: one of every eight black males in the 25-34 age group is locked up on any given day and 32% of black males born today can expect to spend time in a state or federal prison if current trends (2). Over of the black male population can expect to do time behind bars because they are unfairly targeted by our justice system. Another factor that contributes to unfair stereotyping of blacks is difference in fairness when dealing with trials and convictions. The amount of crimes being committed by these two groups does not line up with their sentencing and punishments. Many would say that blacks commit more serious crimes but this is not true. Statistically, black people are more likely to be sent to jail than white people, but they are also more likely to commit petty crimes. According to Kakade et article Adolescent Substance Use and Other Illegal Behaviors and Racial Disparities in Criminal Justice System Involvement, youths, however, had higher rates of substance use than did African American youths. Reported drug-selling activity was also more common among Whites than among African American youths; this racial difference was statistically (9). Even knowing this Blacks still get arrested more frequently than whites. This stems from problems with our justice system and corrupt cops and will continue if nothing is done to stop it. After examining recent events clear the justice system stereotypes Blacks more frequently than Whites. Considering that blacks hold a higher count behind bars than within the Onwuanaibe 7 population, are stereotyped with all crime and face unfair trials and convictions it is evident that they do. The justice system has undermined the black community for years and created a perpetuating cycle that has allowed for blacks to become the scapegoat for crime. Onwuanaibe 8 Works Cited Are Black Men and Teens Unfairly Targeted in U.S.  Debate.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. Crutchfield, Robert D., et al. and Ethnic Disparity and Criminal Justice: How Much is too The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology (1973-), vol. 100, no. 3, 2010, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/25766112. Kakade, Meghana, et al. Adolescent Substance Use And Other Illegal Behaviors And Racial Disparities In Criminal Justice System Involvement: Findings From A US National  American Journal Of Public Health 102.7 (2012): 1307-1310. Business Source Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Mauer, Marc. Race, Class, And The Development Of Criminal Justice  Review Of Policy Research 21.1 (2004): 79-92. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 20 Feb. 2017. ProCon.org Van Cleve, Nicole Gonzalez, and Lauren Mayes. Criminal Justice Through Lenses: A Call To Examine The Mutual Constitution Of Race And Criminal  Law & Social Inquiry 40.2 (2015): 406-432. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 20 Feb. 2017.