Weiner 1 Emily Weiner Kristian Gocinski ENC1102.012 21 April 2014 Fight for the Future The wellbeing of teenagers is at risk. Mental illness has been silently preying on the youth of today for years and the problem is only getting worse. The average person knows very little about the realities of mental illnesses. Many people do not realize how common mental illness is among teenagers, it is believed that 1 in 5 youth aged (21.4%) experiences a severe mental disorder at some point during their (About NAMI). This means that in their first 13-18 years of life, 1 in 5 will experience a severe mental illness. Some examples of mental illnesses that teenagers commonly suffer from are anxiety disorders, and depression. These mental illnesses affect teenagers daily. It is estimated that in 2015, 6.3 million teenagers had an anxiety disorder (Schrobsdorff 1). Many people with mental illnesses do not reach out for help. In the article The Psychological Mechanism of Stigmatizing Attitudes toward Help Seeking Behavior for Mental Health Problems, help seeking is defined as process of awareness of symptoms, taking judgment as having a problem, which needs (Zhi-xia 722). Most teenagers suffer in silence and do not seek help; therefore, it is important for the adults in a life to pay attention. The pressures of school, social lives, extracurriculars, jobs, and developing as a person takes a toll. Teenagers developing into adults are especially at risk for mental health problems (Uhlhaas 1). Mental health is a far-reaching issue that has great impact on youth, yet the school system does little to help the 1 in 5 teenagers who suffer from a mental illness (About NAMI). The mental health of teenagers is a very serious issue and Weiner 2 the National Parent Teacher Association (NPTA) can make a positive difference in teenagers lives by supporting and creating policies to help teenagers with mental illnesses in schools and by educating parents on mental illnesses. Everyone should be concerned with the mental health of teenagers. Many teenagers hide their mental illnesses from their parents. Suicide is the second leading cause of death for teenagers, yet many parents are not educated on mental health and little is being done in the school systems to help the students who suffer from mental illnesses (VanOrman 44). Something needs to change. It seems as if America is ignoring the silent cries of its youth. If changes are not made, the statistics of teenagers suffering will only rise. If left untreated mental illnesses will only worsen as adolescents grow into adults and enter the real world. The youth of today is our future. The National Parent Teacher Association is a group of parents, teachers, administrators, and community leaders who are devoted to the betterment of educational system, health, and safety for all students (National PTA History). This association has been around for over 100 years, with the mission make every potential a reality by engaging and empowering families and communities to advocate for all (National PTA History). The National Parent Teacher Association is the volunteer child advocacy organization in the (National PTA History). The National Parent Teacher Association promotes the involvement of parents in their education (Warner 708). This association believes the closer home-life is to the school-life is intertwined, the better the education will be. This is because parents and teachers can communicate about the child to achieve the best results for the child. The NPTA is devoted to helping children be successful. Their values reflect this. They stand for collaboration, respect, accountability, and diversity. They use collaboration by often Weiner 3 collaborating with organizations to create programs that promote the well-being of students. This leads into another one of values: accountability. The NPTA believes that each member is obligated to do whatever they can to help achieve the associations mission statement. The members of this group look out for students and want to make positive changes in the academic system to help these students be healthy, happy, and successful. The National Parent Teacher Association should engage in the conversation of mental illness in teenagers because it aligns with their mission statement and will help to better society. They want to be advocates for children and help children reach their highest potential. To achieve their mission statement, they must take mental health into consideration. The NPTA stands for the responsibility of each member to help promote the success of each student. It becomes very difficult for students to succeed academically when they have problems functioning daily. If the NPTA raises awareness on the mental health of teenagers by educating parents and teachers about mental illnesses and the signs someone is suffering from a mental illness, then it will help identify the children who are secretly suffering. One of the best ways to educate people about mental illness is through media campaigns, because they reach such a large audience (Joffee 8). The NPTA can reach a large network of people, this will allow them to effectively raise awareness and educate the public. Another way the NPTA could make a positive impact on the lives, is by creating and promoting policies for the school systems to help students suffering from mental illnesses. Advocating for mental health awareness and promoting mental health policies in schools benefits the National Parent Teacher Association in every possible way. Anything that benefits the children, benefits the association. The children are the future. By helping the children with their mental health, you are creating more mentally Weiner 4 well adults. It is a ripple effect. By helping, the NPTA will be creating a happier healthier future for America. To help save the children the National Parent Teacher Association needs to take action. First, they need to become educated. They can collaborate with any of a variety of mental health organizations to accomplish this. One example of an organization the NPTA can collaborate with is the National Alliance on Mental Illness or NAMI. They would want to partner with NAMI because the organization shares similar values. Both organizations are focused on education to create a better future, and they are both advocates. NAMI educates people on mental illnesses, and advocates for people who have mental illnesses (About NAMI). If these two organizations work together, it could make a huge difference in lives of students all over America. After the NPTA becomes educated, the NPTA can create documents and send out memos to members that educate parents on mental illness and encourage parents to be accountable for their mental health. Education is key to helping teenagers who suffer from mental illnesses (Casale 212). They can also create and promote policies that help children who are suffering from mental illnesses. An example of a policy would be having mental health sick days for students. NPTA has the power to make a difference. All they must do is follow their mission statement and look to their values for guidance. If they do not act now, the NPTA is condemning teenagers to suffer from mental illnesses. They are allowing the rates of suicide to increase. They are allowing teenagers to suffer silently. Mental illness is a serious topic that is often overlooked, especially when it comes to the youth. The school systems does nothing for this cause. The National Parent Teacher Association has the power to make a difference in lives. They can make a positive difference in teenagers lives by supporting and creating policies to help teenagers with mental illnesses in Weiner 5 schools and by educating parents on mental illnesses. It aligns with their mission statement and it will help millions. Work Cited National Alliance on Mental Illness, www.nami.org/About-NAMI. Accessed 22 April 2017 Casale, Del. and education on mental disorders in teenagers reduce stigma for mental illness: a preliminary Journal of Psychopathology, vol. 19, 2013, pp. 208- 212. Accessed 22 April 2017. Joffe, Justin L. Call Me Crazy: A Survey of Mental Health  Chicago- Kent Law Review, no. 3, 2016, p. 1145. EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.ed u/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.461449689&site=eds-live. Accessed 3 May 2017. PTA PTA. http://www.pta.org/about/content.cfm?ItemNumber=3465&navItemNumber=4581. Accessed 22 April 2017. Parents Advised to Talk to Teenagers, Young Adults about Mental  Health Weekly, 2004. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx Weiner 6 ?direct=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.122183318&site=eds-live. Accessed 22 April 2017. Schrobsdorff, Susanna. The Kids Are Not All Right. (Cover  Time, vol. 188, no. 19, 07 Nov. 2016, pp. 44-51. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=aph&AN=119124256&site=eds-live. Accessed 22 April 2017. Uhlhaas, Peter J., et al. The Youth Mental Health Risk and Resilience Study  BMC Psychiatry, vol. 17, 26 Jan. 2017, pp. 1-8. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1186/s12888-017- 1206-5. Accessed 3 May 2017. VanOrman, Alicia and Beth Jarosz. Replaces Homicide as Second-Leading Cause of Death Among U.S. PBR. http://www.prb.org/Publications/Articles/2016/suicide-replaces-homicide-second- leading-cause-death-among-us-teens.aspx. Accessed 22 April 2017. Warner, Carolyn. Payers Need to Know - Schools Do Vital Speeches. 2003: pp. 708-712. Accessed 22 April 2017 Zhi-xia, Chen and WS Chandrasekara. The Psychological Mechanism of Stigmatizing Attitudes toward Help Seeking Behavior for Mental Health  International Journal of Management, Accounting & Economics, vol. 3, no. 11, Nov. 2016, pp. 720-734. EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.ed u/login.aspx?direct=true&db=buh&AN=120395247&site=eds-live. Accessed 3 May 2017.