Zhou 1 Guangzheng Zhou Mark J Nusspickel ENC 1101 Spring 2017 April 3rd, 2017 Tardy Revived Miracle the Rising of Graphene Material Have you ever heard the materials? Throughout the history of human civilization, burgeoning materials always brought an entire new era. The intensity of steel opened the gate of knight age; plastics direct leaded the nowadays modernization while the nano-silicic materials were declaring the dawn of information age. Now, the next material evolution is coming, which is known as the rising of graphene the miracle material. Graphene material has many amazing characteristics: it only has single atom thickness while the theoretical mechanical strength is the strongest that human have ever had. Its properties not only include high conductivity in both heat and electricity, but also great stability in large range of temperature. Graphene studying exhibits a wonderful potential of possible applications, especially powerful miniature electronic device in next generation, and super strong construction material. Obviously, someday, this materials would play important roles in human society. However, since the graphene has first time been prepared in 2004, a decade has passed, it is necessary to consider and clarify when will this exciting material come true. There is a divergence between public believing and scientific estimate. Because public were affected by the great confident and enthusiasm of authorities (the addresser who always be cited or interviewed in news and magazine) in graphene research field, over- Zhou 2 optimistically, many people commonly hold an expectation of a less developed period on this material than what forecast. Majority believe the rapid graphene-relative technologies developing speed will make the applications come soon. Also, the positive news of new graphene discovers constantly appeared on the media that made an unidirectional propagate of graphene technologies developing speed. Incomplete, or unilateral understanding of research situation is the main issue. It is inadvisable to over optimistic believe that the graphene applications will come true in anytime (Ball). Although statistical data shows that the studying implementation of graphene technology is developing at a rapid speed, nevertheless, more time is need to thoroughly know and develop this amazing material. As a common view of graphene studying, the graphene is rapid developing in the greatest scale ever, it could cay that every day researchers can find new discover form this material (Dempsey 37), by the studying of researches tendency in 2009, which provide: brief overview of the number of publications about graphene (Fig. a) indicates the growing number of publications in this field since its discovery. This diagram shows an increase by factor of approximately 10 in five years based on the Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) database. The total number of citations per year, based on the data obtained from Web of Science (WoS), is shown in Fig. Zhou 3 (Taghioskoui 35). It is true that the graphene studying is increasing evidently, consider the countries and institutions involved in, it even can be considered that the graphene technologies developing is progressing on an unprecedented speed and scale with great global cooperation. But, unfortunately, it does not mean that our understanding of graphene is comprehensive enough to apply it into society within days nor months; it still need to take long time to understand graphene and establish appropriate theory for graphene application (Novoselov et al. 194). The amount of research is not equal to the level of understanding (Dempsey 36). To acquire required graphene application, developer must design appropriate the application of technologies can never be achieved without attempt. Although public believe the application can achieve since scientist have the methods to prepare graphene, it is impossible to directly use graphene because its Nano scale and two-dimension. The commercialization of graphene applications need more studying, just as Dr. Geim mentioned, the understanding of graphene human had just passed the beginning step, systemize all people learned to real application is impossible in only one step (Dempsey 36). Although it is correct to admit that graphene studying has already exposed almost all fundamental properties of graphene, it does not mean the extend of graphene studying achieve the goal of this super tiny and thin material into smart or space Down-to-earth, developing of applications still have long a way to go. Of-course, only surmount restrict of imagination, by using innovation and creation, compare with past technologies, such as plastics, rare-earth material and so graphene application will come true very soon. Just as Edison had failed hundreds Zhou 4 of times when inventing lamp, graphene need time to overcome the millions of technological obstruction and challenges, it will take time, but optimistic spirit form society is still necessary for supporting developing of this material. Relative studying has already developed dozens of convenient or efficient methods to prepare graphene, and some of methods even have great potential to perform mass production with almost perfect purity rate. Currently, there now have many different available methods for prepare different qualities of graphene, not only the basic method of mechanical stripping, but also many other outstanding methods appeared, such as Liquid phase and thermal exfoliation and Chemical vapour deposition (Novoselov et al. 194). Unfortunately, despite of preparation is not the problem, graphene material is not like other material that could be processed directly; and methods are necessary to achieve the requirement of its application. No product can direct be used without any plan or design. There also has been proved by an article: companies making nanomaterials have often focused on volume manufacture before applications were mature, leading to a number of them consuming large amounts of (Segal 614), it is clear that the graphene has no merit until there have right requirement to consume and apply on. Similarly, Novoselov, who is one of the authority in graphene studying, his article showed: the market of graphene applications is essentially driven by progress in the production of graphene with properties appropriate for the specific application, and this situation is likely to continue for the next decade or at least until each of many potential applications meets its own (Novoselov et al. 192). Which clearly supported that graphene application still need Zhou 5 longer time to develop corresponding and productive manufacture and process methods than public thought. Obviously, the production of graphene application still need to overcome a huge baffle: the graphene produce methods are required to develop and serve for the specific requirement of certain production. In short words, the amount of graphene relative researches were increasing year by year, which proves a positive studying situation and condition. Also, our understanding of graphene, especially the developing its application is remain on the initial stage. Although the researches have brought many mature methods that can prepare graphene already, the reprocess of the raw material is still a huge challenge. There is no doubt that graphene technology has lots of wonderful advance in past decade, however, it still need longer time to pull those applications to come true. As a virtue, people should be rational to acknowledge that graphene technologies wound not have real application in short time; at least, whenever graphene applications finally come true, we are now witnessing of the beginning of a new age. As human technology advance, or even can called as another type of evolution of intelligence, basic on knowledge of the world; we are going to expect and absolutely will experience more than just innovation of technologies. As an old saying goes: opposite of wisdom is the objective truth always rise, and its impact always profound and lasting. Last, back to the topic, the graphene is still on its marathon toward brilliant future, why not follow this with rational and optimistic concern and more attention? Zhou 6 Works Cited Ball, Philip. expect graphene to perform miracles Philip  Opinion. Guardian News and Media, 28 Dec. 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Dempsey, Paul. Flat Out For The  Engineering & Technology (17509637) 3.19 (2008): 34-37. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Novoselov, K.S., et al. A Roadmap For  Nature 7419 (2012): 192. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Small  Entrepreneur 42.12 (2014): 70. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Segal, Michael. Selling Graphene By The  Nature Nanotechnology 4.10 (2009): 612. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Taghioskoui, Mazdak. Trends In Graphene  Materials Today 12.10 (2009): 34-37. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.