Smith 1 Storm Smith Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.012 21 April 2017 Girls Can Play Too If one were to turn on a television, it would not be a surprise that there are several channels covering the latest sporting events ranging from football all the way to shuffle board. Now, look a little closer. On each of those channels there is obviously someone discussing sports but more specifically before sports. Hardly ever does one hear anything regarding women athletics. In an article from 2016 it was said that, network prioritizes sports based on sports personal belief that sports are more newsworthy and important to their (Sherwood 5). From this research, it is obvious that women receive less media coverage because they are seen as a minor priority. Why even discuss women athletes if no one really cares? Because the people behind the screen are the ones that choose what topics they are going to talk about, it is not surprising that they would choose sports if that is what is going to bring in more views which then leads to more money in their pockets. However, the lack of representation for female athletes and their sports does not end there. Female athletes are often not given the same endorsement deals or opportunities as well as being paid much less compared to male athletes. According to a study done in 2016, athletes are renowned to be some of the highest paid members of society, however the majority of women do not even come close to competing with their male counterparts when it comes to pay remuneration, media coverage and sponsorship in most (Pearce). The amount of money that a male athlete is paid is often a topic of controversy due to how high the amount typically is. Smith 2 Female athletes need to be given the opportunities that are given to male athletes, starting with Entertainment and Sports Programming Networks (ESPN) and getting women sportscasters as well as broadcast more sports on television. People want to say that sports are the ones to bring in the viewers but if you televise sports just as often you will be able to see the views increase as well as profits; give female athletes more endorsements as well as recognition for their success on television. As stated before, there is very low percentage of sports media coverage that is being focused on the female athlete population. It is rare for anyone to see a woman athlete making the first story on a sports anchors news list. A study was done in New Zealand which shows that, in a country where women led the world in achieving suffrage, continuing cultural change is not (French). This issue is not only happening in the United States but all over the world, female athletes are not given the same opportunities as their male counterparts. When women athletics does make the cut and is set to hit ESPN or any other sports news show, it is often believed that the most successful way to effectively market them is to highlight something other than (Fink 337). Therefore, they focus on and/or attractive, feminine qualities, or their roles outside of sports such as wives, mothers, girlfriends and so on due to the belief that female athletic accomplishments are not sufficiently (Fink 337). For example, if Lebron James was being discussed on ESPN, the anchors might focus on his defense or the average amounts of points he has per game. Recently, Serena Williams just won another grand slam title. However, the only reason this story even made the headlines is due to the fact that she is pregnant and about to be a mother. It does not matter that she is an extremely talented athlete, spent years of her life training or any other quality similar to Lebron James. The media focuses on the fact that pregnant because that Smith 3 is what will get them the most views and will ultimately bring in more revenue. A study was created involving student-athletes to participate in interviews and look over photos comparing male and female athletes from various magazines. The study looked at the different factors and influences that affect perception of a female athlete compared to male athletes (Kim). When a female athlete is highly ranked among her peers instead of being categorized as a great female athlete the media will label them as a hard competitor, an aggressive athlete or sometimes call them a manly player. This shows how even when you are one of the best, the media will find some aspect to emphasize in a negative manner and will not give female athletes the titles they give male athletes. ESPN mission is serve sports fans wherever sports are watched, listened to, discussed, debated, read about or (ESPN Mission Statement). ESPN is a sports television channel, in total fourteen channels varying from ESPN to ESPN New to ESPN Goal Line, which shows the pregame, the game, and post-game interviews and the reporters will discuss what the fans and spectators are expected to see from certain players and then the result and how the overall game went. During the playoffs, whether it is football, basketball, soccer, or baseball, you can find your team on any one of their channels and each channel will consist of the pre-and post-game interviews as well as the games for the whole day nothing but sports. ESPN will also have major interviews that have been turned into documentaries such as 30 for 30 and those who are watching will hear the story of an athlete or coach or an event that occurred. mission is to serve sports fans and if they are only showing male sports they already have not abided by their mission as a sports industry, so they need to become engaged with this issue to show they stand by their goal as a company. If ESPN would have more channels showing female sports then there will be more of a variety of viewers which will lead to Smith 4 more air time and more money. When more sports are broadcasted whether it is male athletes or female athletes playing people are going to watch and the companies are going to make money. ESPN should bring in more female athletes to endorse and to show on television because when younger female athletes see their favorite players on television, they will see their success and will want to continue in their footsteps. When younger athletes see how much fun their favorite athletes look like when they compete it sparks a flame inside. This feeling makes them want to keep playing their favorite sport until they no longer play. It is a goal to keep kids active and participating in physical activity, this is not only for their health but in some cases it can deter them from doing crime and getting into trouble. As a society, we want the younger athletes to continue their athletic careers as far as they can, this is easy for male athletes because they can see throughout society their favorite players on the television, on posters, endorsing clothing, while female athletes have to search to find their favorite players. If we can bring female athletes more into the endorsement world and the media, the numbers for student-athletes will increase and as more athletes participate more money comes in to the organizations and profits increase. Female athletes should be given more sponsorships, endorsement deals, and more air time on the television and this can start with ESPN. ESPN is a major sports network with many connections to be able to influence other sport networks to incorporate female sports on their channels as well. Steps that can be taken are, ESPN begins to hire more female sportscasters who will then want to report on female sports than just male sports. Then EPSN would need to either add more channels to acquire the adding of female sports to the air or balance out air time between male and female sports and flexibility can be given during playoffs. Even in college, the channels run by ESPN barely show female athletes unless playoffs are occurring then female athletes will be given a channel for themselves. But the majority of college sports that are being Smith 5 aired are football, basketball, and baseball while female sports are aired when the time is convenient for the channels or when sports are not playing. Colleges are a main issue for decreased student-athlete numbers due to lack of funding and the cutting of sports due to lack of participants. If colleges can be granted funds for athletics and use the funds to give scholarships for student-athletes then female athletes can be able to continue their athletic careers into college as the money for scholarships can be spread out to more students. If ESPN can give female athletes the same opportunities as their male counterparts, when speaking of sports endorsements and airtime, this will help benefit future professional female athletes as well as the sponsoring companies. Bringing in female athletes to the endorsement world is not going to cause a decrease in sales but would bring in more revenue as ESPN would be appealing to more audiences. By bringing in more female athletes into the media spotlight would then have ESPN reporters interviewing more female athletes and ESPN would be hiring more female reporters as well. When airing more female sports, the reporters for the sports broadcast will need to know how the sport is played and the language. By bringing in female reporters ESPN can expand, creating more television channels, which leads to more profit. As a society, we look up to athletes as a motivator, a model of dedication and as an admiration of their athleticism, we overlook female athletes because we feel they are not as good or athletic. The only way to change this behavior is if we all come together to appreciate athletes as one and not discriminate by gender. Put the light on female athletes and watch them shine. Smith 6 Works Cited Mission Storify.com, https://storify.com/apstarnes/espn-mission-statement Accessed 20 April 2017. Fink, Janet. athletes, sport, and the sport media commercial complex: Have we really a long way, Sports Management, vol. 18, no. 3, 2015, pp. 331- 342. Accessed 20 April 2017. French, Simon. Still Not There: The Continued Invisibility of Female Athletes and Sports in the New Zealand Print  Media International Australia, Incorporating Culture & Policy, no. 148, 2013, p. 39. EBSCOhost. Accessed 19 April 2017. Kim, Ka Young. The Ideal Body Image of Female Athletes and Their Perspectives to the Sexualized Media Images of Athletes: In-Depth Interviews with Collegiate Female Athletes. Dissertation Abstracts International Section A: Humanities and Social Sciences, vol. 76, ProQuest Information & Learning, 2016. EBSCOhost. Accessed 19 April 2017. Lynch, Michael W. TITLE PYRRHIC VICTORY. (Cover  Reason 32.11 (2001): 28. Academic Search Premier. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Pearce, Nicole. wage gap between female and male athletes: Discrimination or ANZSLA Commentator, vol. 97, 2016, pp. 7-12. Accessed 20 April 2017. Sherwood, M., A. Osborne, M. Nicholson, and E. Sherry. News Values, and Audience Considerations: Factors That Facilitate Media Coverage of Womens Communication & Sport (2016): n. pag. Web. Accessed 20 April 2017. Richards, Katie. Why Brands Are Finally Choosing More Female Athletes For Big Endorsement  Adweek (2015): 1. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.