Morejon !1 Vanessa Morejon-Campos Hannah Lay ENC 1102 26 April 2017 LGBTQ+ Adoption The power to change lies in the hands of those who care. There has been progressive change for the LGBTQ+ community, including the adoption process becoming easier and easier, same-sex marriage becoming legal in the U.S, and more people becoming educated with time, but more help is always needed. Since the the struggle to have the legal rights to adopt by same-sex couples has been very evident. The national legalization of same-sex marriage on June 26 of 2015, after the Supreme decision in the case of Obergefell v. Hodges, which states that state-level bans on same-sex marriage are unconstitutional, marked a very significant change for the LGBTQ+ community. Many organizations exists purely for the awareness and representation of the LGBTQ+ people, but individuals who are directly and indirectly affected or have empathy for the LGBTQ+ community also serve to spread awareness, educate others and work towards a more equitable future for LGBTQ+ people and parents wishing to start a family by adopting. Even if the issue of same-sex adoption may not affect someone directly, they can still do their part to influence the ongoing progression of acceptance and legal rights for the LGBTQ+ community, specifically parents-to-be. With love and the thirst for change, anyone can make an impact. As a member of the student body at the University of South Florida, you might not feel directly affected by the same-sex adoption laws or know where to begin to influence change for this issue, but there are simple steps to become more educated in order to take the Morejon !2 proper steps to build a better tomorrow for others. This issue is important because equality for all is crucial, and the rising number of children in foster care could be decreased if all same-sex couples were legally able to adopt. Taking an LGBTQ+ awareness class during the summer, attending LGBTQ+ presentations, and becoming more educated with the help of credible organizations and websites are some of the few steps you can take to make an impact and influence change. As USF students, getting educated and becoming aware of what is at stake is the first step towards making an impact and influencing change on the LGBTQ+ adoption issue. There are many credible and accurate sources that can provide a stakeholder with the right information in order to get educated. As a student at the University of South Florida, one might not feel like the issue of LGBTQ+ adoptions is in their place to participate in or talk to peers about since most students are not looking to adopt children while in college, or may not belong in the LGBTQ+ community. You can still get involved to work for the equal rights of others and participate in events to become more educated on the matter. There are nearly children in foster care in the United on any given day (Foster Care). And about children in foster care in alone (Adopt Us Kids). With the increasing social and legal acceptance of having same-sex couples adopt, the number of children in foster care have decreased. There are a plethora of other factors that affect the increase or decrease of the amount of children in foster care such as physical abuse, sexual abuse, neglect, death of a parent, and voluntary placement. But when a loving and caring same-sex couple is denied the right to adopt a child from foster care, and provide them with a happier life, that is when an evident problem arises. There are an two million LGBT people are interested in but most are faced with Morejon !3 legal issues, depending on the state and adoption agency they wish to adopt from (LGBT Adoption Statistics). Even if same-sex couples wish to become an LGBTQ+ foster parent, it can be more difficult by legal restrictions or the personal objections of child welfare in the United States (Issues: Adoption and Foster Care). There are organizations such as Family Equality Council which can provide more facts and credible information in order to fully understand the importance of becoming aware and engaged in this topic. Although one may not be directly impacted by the issue of same-sex adoption and are not directly affected by the legal advances that each state makes in order to progress closer to equality for the LGBTQ+ parents-to-be, one can have empathy and thirst for change. You may know of a family member or friend that is in the position of wanting to adopt or become a foster parent but is facing legal bumps along the road due to their sexual orientation. You may also be a part of the LGBTQ+ community or know of a friend that wishes to form a family in the future by adopting or becoming a foster parent. There have been social and legal changes that are in favor of same-sex adoption such as, the Department of Children and Families longer about the sexual and approving joint adoptions by a same-sex couple, due to the Obergefell v. Hodges ruling in favor of same-sex marriage across the United States (Florida Gay Adoption). But there is still an opposing side to this issue that disagrees with the idea that same-sex couples are capable of creating a loving and nurturing home for a child. There are still of agencies would reject a gay or lesbian applicant, either because of the religious beliefs of the agency, a state law prohibiting placement with LGBT parents, or a policy of placing children only with married which is unfair to LGBTQ+ parents Morejon !4 (LGBT Adoption Facts). Discrimination against the LGBTQ+ community still exists, and must be lessened. Feeling empowered to make a change and knowing where to start are important steps in in order to build a more equal and loving future for everyone, especially for the minority groups that are victims of discrimination everyday. The LGBTQ+ community has had significant changes since the 20th century but there is always room for more progression. There are numerous amounts of things that USF students can act on to become more educated and make an impact. There is an LGBTQ+ class that is being given during the summer A term, it is called and students will explore experiences of people who identify themselves as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, asexual, intersex, nonbinary, and Students will also look at the history, and cultures that have been developed and take notice of other factors that affect the experiences such as, race, class, and region. There is also a student organization at USF which is called P.R.I.D.E. which stands for Respecting Individual Diversity and They are the continuously funded gay student organization in the state of and meet every Thursday night in the Marshall Student Center (Who are we). There are LGBTQ+ presentations hosted by the Office of Multicultural affairs which have a website where events are posted and where you can apply to train and become an LGBTQ+ ally on the USF campus. Browsing through the websites of organizations that support and represent the LGBTQ+ parents and children like Family Equality Council can provide more information on this topic as well. The chance to donate to this cause is also available on the Family Equality Council website. Morejon !5 Change is inevitable in society, but making a positive impact takes motivation. Like mentioned before, the power to change lies in the hands of those who care. Becoming educated, engaged and feeling empowered will give you the drive and motivation needed to educate others, spread awareness and act towards a better tomorrow. The LGBTQ+ community is progressing and the adoption process for same-sex couples is becoming more accepted and easier with time, but help is always needed. Organizations such as Family Equality Council make it their mission to attitudes and policies to ensure that all families are respected, loved, and celebrated- including families with parents that are but individuals have the power to influence change as well, even students at a university like USF (About Us). Morejon !6 Work Cited Adoptions, Lifelong. Lgbt  LifeLong Adoptions. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. < https://www.lifelongadoptions.com/lgbt-adoption/lgbt-adoption-facts>. Adoptions, Lifelong. Lgbt  LifeLong Adoptions. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. < https://www.lifelongadoptions.com/lgbt-adoption/lgbt-adoption-statistics>. Familyequality.org. About  Family Equality Council. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. < http:// Foster  Rights. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. <http://www.childrensrights.org/ newsroom/fact-sheets/foster-care/>. Getting Approved to Foster or  Getting Approved - AdoptUSKids. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. <http://www.adoptuskids.org/adoption-and-foster-care/how-to-adopt-and- foster/getting-approved>. Law, Alper. Florida Gay  Alper Law. Alper Law, 07 Sept. 2015. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. < https://www.alperlaw.com/family-law/adoption/florida-gay-adoption/>. USF PRIDE  USF P.R.I.D.E. Alliance. N.p., 2017. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. < http:// www.usfpridealliance.org/>. Common Reasons Children Enter Foster  The Spruce. N.p., 2017. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. <https://www.thespruce.com/top-reasons-children-enter-foster- care-27123>.