Running head: DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 1 Project 3 Grace Lougheed The University of South Florida DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 5 Outline I. Intro/thesis: Due to the ability of non-stimulant medication leading to higher probabilities of developing substance use disorder, medical professionals should prescribe stimulants to ADHD patients. II. Opposing viewpoint: A. Some parents and doctors might disagree and say that children and adolescents should not be prescribed stimulant medication, and instead should use non- stimulant treatment. This is because stimulant treatment has more severe side effects, such as sleep disturbances and appetite suppression. Most parents fear that giving their child stimulant medication for their ADHD will increase their risk of developing a substance use disorder but actually quite the opposite. B. The truth, is that the prescribed treatment of stimulants will instead lower children and risk of developing substance abuse. Individuals taking non- stimulant medication will not get the increased dopamine activity in their brain that they need, so they will find other ways to achieve that feeling. Thus resulting in drug and alcohol use, and possibly even addiction. On the other hand, stimulant medication gives the patient the increased dopamine that their body needs. III. Support: A. In the article initiation, longer duration of ADHD stimulants reduces risk of substance use in author and medical professional A. Knopf conducted a study on non-stimulant vs. stimulant treatment and the later risk of developing substance abuse, and concluded that in treatment, shortened treatment, and the use of non-stimulant medications all resulted in an increased of DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 5 substance abuse in Thus confirming my earlier point that non- stimulant treatment puts children at higher risk of substance abuse later in life, as opposed to stimulant treatment that has no evidence of increasing risk. B. In the article Childhood Treatment of ADHD With Stimulant Medication Affect Substance Abuse in Medical professionals Nora Volkow and James Swanson state that part of the concern is that stimulant medications share with drug abuse the ability to increase dopamine concentration in the brain. They, too, conducted a study and came to the conclusion that treatment in children with ADHD may reduce the risk of later substance Giving reliable evidence that stimulant medication in children decreases their risk of substance abuse, not increases it. C. In the article ADHD medication and risk for substance Doctor C. Zheng, along with fellow medical professionals, investigated the association between stimulant medication and substance abuse which concluded the results that the ADHD stimulant medication as not associated with increased rate of substance abuse, in fact it was %31 lower. They also discovered that the longer the duration on the treatment, the lower the rate of substance abuse. D. In an article named and Substance Use Disorders: Developmental Aspects and the Impact of Stimulant Medicinae Doctor Jeffrey Wilson said investigators have suggested that childhood stimulant treatment may in fact decrease the risk of future SUD. These investigators hypothesize that stimulants reduce mediating factors that place children at a DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 5 greater risk for This conforming to the idea that stimulants actually reduce the risk of SUD instead of increase it. E. In an article titled stimulants for ADHD increase the risk of substance use the authors mention that suggests stimulant use does not increase susceptibility to SUDs and some studies have suggested that stimulant use in ADHD patients may protect against In this writing, they include multiple studies done by other medical professionals, some saying their results were some saying and very few who concluded that stimulants increased the risk of developing substance use disorders. F. In the study and substance use K. Humphreys conducted a study which concluded the results that of attention- deficit/hyperactivity disorder with stimulant medication neither protects nor increases the risk of later substance use Thus meaning stimulants positively or negatively affect the risk of developing SUDs. DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 5 Project 3 Stimulant medication as treatment for individuals diagnosed with ADHD, particularly children and adolescents, has been a big controversial topic. Thousands of researchers and medical professionals have conducted studies on this matter to see if the age-old question stimulant medication increase the risk of developing a drug abuse disorder later in Many believe that the treatment of stimulant medication does increase the risk of developing a use disorder, but most research shows that it does not increase it at all, in fact it has been shown to decrease it. Due to the ability of non-stimulant medication leading to higher probabilities of developing substance use disorder, medical professionals should prescribe stimulants to ADHD patients. Despite the countless studies proving that stimulant medication does not increase children and risks, doctors are still very apprehensive about prescribing them to their patients, and therefore parents think that they are safe enough for their children either. Parents believe that non-stimulant treatment is the way to go for controlling their ADHD considering stimulants are known to have more severe side effects such as appetite suppression and sleep disturbances. This causes parents to assume that non-stimulants are the safer option. The truth, is that the prescribed treatment of stimulants will instead lower children and risk of developing substance abuse. Individuals taking non- stimulant medication will not get the increased dopamine activity in their brain that they need, so they will find other ways to achieve that feeling. Thus resulting in drug and alcohol use, and possibly even addiction. On the other hand, stimulant medication gives the patient the increased dopamine that their body needs. DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 5 In the article initiation, longer duration of ADHD stimulants reduces risk of substance use in author and medical professional A. Knopf conducted a study on non-stimulant vs. stimulant treatment and the later risk of developing substance abuse, and concluded that in treatment, shortened treatment, and the use of non- stimulant medications all resulted in an increased of substance abuse in Thus confirming my earlier point that non-stimulant treatment puts children at higher risk of substance abuse later in life, as opposed to stimulant treatment that has no evidence of increasing risk. Similarly, in the article Childhood Treatment of ADHD With Stimulant Medication Affect Substance Abuse in Medical professionals Nora Volkow and James Swanson state that part of the concern is that stimulant medications share with drug abuse the ability to increase dopamine concentration in the brain. They, too, conducted a study and came to the conclusion that treatment in children with ADHD may reduce the risk of later substance Giving reliable evidence that stimulant medication in children decreases their risk of substance abuse, not increases it. In the article ADHD medication and risk for substance Doctor C. Zheng, along with fellow medical professionals, investigated the association between stimulant medication and substance abuse which concluded the results that the ADHD stimulant medication as not associated with increased rate of substance abuse, in fact it was %31 lower. They also discovered that the longer the duration on the treatment, the lower the rate of substance abuse. In an article named and Substance Use Disorders: Developmental Aspects and the Impact of Stimulant Medicinae Doctor Jeffrey Wilson said investigators have suggested that childhood stimulant treatment may in fact decrease the risk of future SUD. These investigators hypothesize that stimulants reduce DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 5 mediating factors that place children at a greater risk for This conforming to the idea that stimulants actually reduce the risk of SUD instead of increase it. In an article titled stimulants for ADHD increase the risk of substance use the authors mention that suggests stimulant use does not increase susceptibility to SUDs and some studies have suggested that stimulant use in ADHD patients may protect against In this writing, they include multiple studies done by other medical professionals, some saying their results were some saying and very few who concluded that stimulants increased the risk of developing substance use disorders. Similarly, in the study and substance use K. Humphreys conducted a study which concluded the results that of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder with stimulant medication neither protects nor increases the risk of later substance use Thus meaning stimulants positively or negatively affect the risk of developing SUDs. Most parents prefer not to give their children stimulant medication as treatment for their ADHD because they believe that it will increase their risk of developing substance abuse and because the medication has severe side effects such as sleep disturbances and appetite suppression. Research and studies show that the treatment of stimulant medications does not increase risk of SUD, in fact it is shown that children and adolescents who are being treated with non-stimulants were more likely to develop a use disorder later in life. Due to the ability of non- stimulant medication leading to higher probabilities of developing substance use disorder, medical professionals should prescribe stimulants to ADHD patients. DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 5 References Chang, Z., Lichtenstein, P., Halldner, L., B., Serlachius, E., Fazel, S., & ... Larsson, H. (2014). Stimulant ADHD medication and risk for substance abuse. Journal Of Child Psychology And Psychiatry, 55(8), 878-885. doi:10.1111/jcpp.12164 Humphreys, K. L., Eng, T., & Lee, S. S. (2013). Stimulant medication and substance use outcomes: A meta-analysis. JAMA Psychiatry, 70(7), 740-749. doi:10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2013.1273 Jain, S., Jain, R., & Islam, J. (2011). Do stimulants for ADHD increase the risk of substance use disorders? For some patients, stimulants might protect against future SUDs. Current Psychiatry, (8), 20. Knopf, A. (2016). Earlier initiation, longer duration of ADHD stimulants reduces risk of substance use in adolescence. Brown University Child & Adolescent Behavior Letter, 32(7), 3-4. doi:10.1002/cbl.30138 Volkow, N. & Swanson, J. (2008). Does Childhood Treatment of ADHD With Stimulant Medication Affect Substance Abuse in Adulthood?. American Journal Of Psychiatry: Official Journal Of The American Psychiatric Association, (5), 553. doi:10.1176/appi.ajp.2008.08020237 Wilson, J. J. (2007). ADHD and Substance Use Disorders: Developmental Aspects and the Impact of Stimulant Treatment. American Journal On Addictions, 165-13. doi:10.1080/10550490601082734