Gallagher 1 David Gallagher Prof. Van Winkle ENC 1102 23 April 2017 The Truth about the Sun Have you ever wondered about free energy? The kind of energy that could propel spacecraft across space in a fraction of the time it takes our rocket-based craft to do so? College students represent the cutting edge of learning. Through research and development, they learn the skills of their predecessors. If successful in their efforts, they may advance knowledge forward by modifying existing ideas or replacing the old way of thinking. In many cases, scientific study is the evidence used to sway the audience. In the case of science, mainstream opinion is currently based on consensus. If more scientists agree than disagree, then it becomes an accepted theory. When accurate information is presented that challenges mainstream accepted ideas, the new information is usually discarded because it does not agree with the current paradigm. It only takes one researcher, one scientist to prove an entire theory wrong and replace it with the truth. College students are the medium where truth, reform and change travel fastest. If college students wake up to new ideas by becoming active researchers by becoming involved in groups like the Thunderbolts Project and attending events like the Electric Universe conference, the truth about the Sun will be revealed. This will lead to a free energy revolution that will propel man forward into the stellar age. Consensus presently dominates physics and cosmology. The Big Bang Theory is accepted as scientific fact, even though it is an unproven theory. Gravity is also accepted as fact Gallagher 2 and the driver of the Big Bang Universe. Sir Isaac Newton became the most famous scientist of his day when he described gravity. Later, scientists like Albert Einstein and Stephen Hawking transformed his descriptions of gravity to explain theories of relativity or how gravity, time, and space interact. These cosmologists used mathematical equations to explain why certain phenomena occur in space. being the most famous of these equations. Unfortunately there are difficulties explaining the gravity-driven Bang of a Universe that came from nothing and is accelerating apart from itself at an incredible rate. When experiments are conducted that contradict the Bang they are quickly dismissed and scientists look to computer generated models to manipulate data in order to keep the current paradigm intact or by more simply hypothesizing how observations fit the theory. This previously led to the introduction of black holes, dark matter, anti-matter, dark energy, etc. This does not solve the puzzle, but only leads to more questions. Ordinary people see the Sun in the sky every day. When it shines, the air temperature is usually hot. When it is hidden by clouds, the temperature is usually cold. It is easy for people to understand that because the Sun is extremely hot and the Earth is relatively close to the Sun, the Earth is a relatively warm planet because of the heat. Close up examination of the corona tells a different story. Around the Sun, there is a glowing halo-like shell that can be seen during solar eclipses from Earth known as the solar corona. When examining the details of the corona the Bang of a gravity-driven universe is destroyed. The definition we choose (of the corona) is based on a fundamental physical consideration: the visible surface of the Sun, the photosphere, is at a temperature of (about) 5800 the atmosphere should drop in temperature as one moves higher. However, the most important physical fact about the corona is that it reaches very high Gallagher 3 temperatures. More than K (over a million degrees Kelvin). Thus, for whatever reason, the outer atmosphere of the Sun shows a steep rise in temperature (Golub, Pasachoff, 2). In an article posted in August of 2014, and last edited in July of 2015, NASA explains the theory that nanoflares are responsible for heating the corona. NASA holds on to the gravity-driven theory that must be unfolding before our eyes. They do not consider another alternative. Since Newton, Einstein and Hawking must be correct; it is the responsibility of NASA scientists to make the pictures and evidence fit together. Scientists have hypothesized that a myriad of nanoflares could heat up solar material in the atmosphere to temperatures of up to 10 million Kelvins. This material would cool very rapidly, producing ample solar material at the 1 to 3 million degrees regularly seen in the the EUNIS team spotted a wavelength of light corresponding to that 10 million degree material. To spot this faint emission line was a triumph of the EUNIS resolution. weak line observed over such a large fraction of an active region really gives us the strongest evidence yet for the presence of nanoflares (Jeff (Zell, nasa.gov) Stephen Smith, a contributor to the Thunderbolts Project explains the ample solar material and wavelengths of light observed by NASA as plasma filaments. This explanation is based on numerous observations from across the Universe as well as the solar system. It does not include thousands of constantly exploding nuclear-type reactions on the surface of the sun. In an Electric Universe, solar flares, coronal heating, and all other solar activity are caused by fluctuations in the amount of charge flowing into the Sun. That charge exchange takes the form of plasma filaments that are gigantic in scale. They are Gallagher 4 extremely diffuse, but are so large that they carry tremendous amounts of electricity. Called they supply power to the electric circuit centered on the Sun. The energy is focused from the outside and not radiated from the inside (Smith, www.thunderbolts.info). As college students, we represent our educational future, and as such need to get involved and visit websites like www.thunderbolts.info to learn more information and compare it against the mainstream. Browse the website and become involved! Sign up and attend the next Electric Universe conference in Phoenix, Arizona. Listen as David Talbott and Wallace Thornhill explain the details of the Electric Universe, while researchers like Donald Scott, Ben Davidson, Ev Cochrane and others explain different aspects of the Electric Universe and how it relates to life in general. Montgomery Childs will be updating the SAFIRE project, now in its third phase, which is an ongoing series of experiments proving the electrical nature of the Sun. When it is accepted as reality, study of our electric Universe will lead to a free energy revolution that will eliminate the need for fossil fuels all together, and push man forward into an age of interstellar navigation. In conclusion, science is not science because it is peer-reviewed or because nine out of ten scientists agree. Science is science if it works, if it can be replicated in experiments, if it is the truth. The Sun is electric in nature. The old nuclear model will continue to get older. As a society, we see UFOs and wonder about technology that seems foreign to us. Then we dismiss the observations we have made with our own eyes, because we do not want to feel incorrect, or be labeled as a heretic or worse; a conspiracy theorist! The Sun is a perfect example that we have been lied to, intentionally or unintentionally. We must recognize that the truth about the Sun represents the new way of thinking. Electricity is the greatest force in our universe. When we can master electricity and magnetism, we will be able to travel to the stars. Until then, we remain Gallagher 5 content with burning up fossil fuels while damaging the planet so we can drive our cars and watch rockets fly into the atmosphere to maintain satellites that help us gain signals for our cell phones. Will we teach the next generation the mysteries of free energy and tales from voyages to other stars? Will we pat ourselves on the back about our awesome video games, new cell phones and snapchats? Will we regress and argue about the old way of doing things for another hundred years? The future is in your hands. Gallagher 6 Works Cited Page Golub, Leon & Pasachoff, Jay M., The Solar Corona, Cambridge University Press, New York, NY, 1997 Smith, Stephen, November 21, 2016, https://www.thunderbolts.info/wp/2016/11/21/core-principles/, accessed April 9, 2017 Zell, Holly, Evidence Yet for Coronal Heating Theory Detected by NASA Sounding April 1, 2014 (updated July 30, 2016), https://www.nasa.gov/content/goddard/best-evidence-yet-for-coronal-heating-theory, accessed April 9, 2017