Kellman 1 Abraham Kellman ENC 1102.003 Dennis 16 April 2017 Physician Assisted Suicide: Dignified death or Homicide? Brittney Maynard was a normal woman, a newly wed, and a happy dog owner all until the new year of 2014 came around. For months, Maynard had been suffering from incapacitating headaches, so she decided to go to the doctor to get it checked out. Well, she was diagnosed with brain cancer and her life went from trying for a family to going in and out of hospitals. After two surgeries and a couple weeks, her cancer came back with a vengeance. doctors said that she only had six months to live. She researched for a cure or treatment that may prolong her life, but nothing was out there that did not destroy her quality of life. She searched for alternatives like palliative or hospice care, but determined that it would prolong her and her families suffering. Finally, she discovered physician assisted suicide (PAS) and found her answer. Soon, she was in Oregon with a new house, doctor, and license; even her husband was affected by this ordeal, he had to take a leave of absence from his job (Maynard 1). About 1.7 million people in 2014 were diagnosed with cancer just like Brittany, and about 600,000 were killed by it (Cancer facts, American Cancer society). Many of them suffered through the excruciating pain of their disease without having any other option. As seen in the map below PAS is only available in 5 states and 19 other states even introduced the idea of PAS into legislation (Death with Dignity National Center). Kellman 2 Why, with so many people in pain and prolonged suffering, is PAS not a right? Why is it not even being addressed in some parts of the USA? This is where the people who are not directly affected by this lack of opportunity come in. It is our job to get involved with our terminally ill community by volunteering at local care facilities and to call Florida government officials to get the conversation started. Death with Dignity National Center (DDNC) is a non-profit organization that is in support of PAS. Their mission is promote Death with Dignity laws based on model legislation, the Oregon Death with Dignity Act to provide an option for dying individuals and to stimulate nationwide improvements in end-of-life As the name states, they are a nationwide organization based in Portland, Oregon and have been around for over 20 years Kellman 3 (Death with Dignity National Center). They are the people who the successful efforts to pass Death with Dignity statutes in Washington (2008), Vermont (2013), and California DDNC. They truly believe that mentally sable and terminally ill people (with six months or less) should have the option throughout the US to utilize PAS. PAS is a very diverse and complex topic with many opinions, but they all usually fall under either opposition or support of PAS. But, what is PAS? Physician assisted suicide is the act of a physician consciously and deliberately prescribing a means for a mentally stable individual, with a terminal illness and a prognosis of six months or less to live, to commit suicide. For 132 Oregonians in 2015, PAS was their choice of treatment whether it was because of a ability to participate in pleasurable activities, the loss of dignity, the loss of (PubMed Central). However, as seen in the graph below, 218 people were prescribed the drug to kill themselves but 86 chose not to participate for a variety of reasons. The point is that people had the choice, the right, to stop their suffering. Would you not want that choice in the same circumstances? Kellman 4 Many other countries have legalized and offer this choice to all its citizens. According to global health review, 9 other countries offer either PAS or euthanasia or both, the countries are seen on the map. Unlike some of those countries, US citizens who are not members of the 5 states where PAS is legal, and want the option of PAS, must uproot themselves and move to those states and go through all the legal work of establishing residency. This adds to the already terrible suffering that some of these people are experiencing, and could cause them to just bear with the suffering until death ultimately ends it. The continuing of peoples needless suffering because of red tape, low income, lack of oppurtuniy or time needs to end. This starts with educating yourself and others on current events and history. You can find a lot of information about PAS on the DDNC website: https://www.deathwithdignity.org/ . Once you are informed you can raise awareness by starting conversations with your local officials and many of your friends. Contacting your officials and starting the conversation or pushing for legislation is a key piece to reaching the goal of PAS Kellman 5 being legal all over the USA. It is also very simple, just go to the website, www.senate.gov, clicking states under the senators button and choosing your state. There you can find your senators and their contact information. Just repeat the process on www.house.gov to contact your local congressmen, for instance contact Kathy Castor if you belong to the Tampa District. Talking to senators and congressmen and starting the PAS legalization process is a great first step, but, in the meantime, all terminally ill people in Florida do not have access to PAS and could use your help. Volunteering at places like Tampa General hospital and Moffitt Cancer Center can help people here and now. While PAS is still not legal in Florida, volunteering with the terminally ill is a great way to get involved. As a volunteer, you can offer reassurance for any problems that some patients and their caregivers may have. By doing this, you can console these patients and maybe remove some of their emotional and even physical suffering. You can also give more time for doctors and nurses to help these patients by doing clerical work and offering computer support. As a student at USF the process to volunteer at these places requires a simple application and a letter of recommendation for both locations. The best part about it is that both of them are in walking distance of USF, actual a Moffitt cancer center is on campus . Another way to volunteer is to get in contact with DDNC. If you send them your resume or just a simple list of skills and experiences, they can find a job for you. If not that, just sign up for their email list at: https://actionnetwork.org/forms/join-the-death-with-dignity-movement and get involved with the actions in your area (DDNC). For me, PAS is not just an option that people should be offered, but a right that should be awarded to the people who need it the most. If you are in support of PAS, just like 68% of the US population, it is time to get educated and involved (gallup.com). Kellman 6 Works Cited Florida  States in the Senate - FL Introduction. United States Senate, 08 June 2016. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Directory of  United States House of Representatives. United States House of Representatives, n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Oregon Health Authority Releases 2015 Data Summary on Death with Dignity  Death with Dignity. Death With Dignity National Center, 4 Feb. 2016. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Dugan, Andrew. In U.S., Support Up for Doctor-Assisted  Gallup.com. Gallup.com, 27 May 2015. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Cancer Facts & Figures  Cancer Facts & Figures 2014. American Cancer Society, 2014. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Volunteer  Moffitt Cancer Center. Moffitt, n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Kellman 7 Become a  Volunteer at TGH Tampa General Hospital. Tampa General Hospital, n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. About  Death With Dignity. Death With Dignity National Center, n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Guy, Maytal, and Theodore A. Stern. The Desire for Death in the Setting of Terminal Illness: A Case  Primary Care Companion to The Journal of Clinical Psychiatry. Physicians Postgraduate Press, Inc., 2006. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Robinson, Holly. Physician Assisted Suicide: A New Global Trend, or a Far Stretch for  Yale Global Health Review. N.p., 21 Sept. 2015. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Take  Death With Dignity. Death With Dignity National Center, 27 Apr. 2017. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.