Kennedy 1 Victoria Kennedy Ashley Tisdale ENC 1101 21 March 2017 As Religiosity Grows, Morals and Intelligence Decline The world has been controlled by religion from the beginning of civilized humanity. Humans have evolved drastically over millions of years, but only one thing has remained constant throughout its existence; religion and its malevolent, misogynistic, homophobic, racist, and ethnic cleansing properties. Avidly judgmental followers have used Christianity for the majority of its existence to mask their hate as acts and servitude to god allowing them to justify their beliefs. have been the fruits of Christianity? Pride and indolence in the clergy, ignorance and servility in the laity. In both; superstition, bigotry and Benjamin Franklin stated: way to see by faith is to shut the eye of irrational, manipulative, and judgmental roots have remained active and constant throughout history. In the times of enlightenment, science and religion clashed especially in the educational system. While education in science and rationalism became the new governing properties of peoples live, religion stayed constant; bringing down the believed values of the education system that contradicted the majority of Christian ideals and beliefs. Science was denied and attacked when it went against anything said or believed in the bible, the refusal to acknowledge proven facts is a common default in religion. In Negative Impact on Modern American Nicolas Baker discusses his encounters with Christian parents who home school their children and incorporate biblical scriptures instead of science. Backer concludes that anti- Kennedy 2 intellectualism has become an expected norm in Christian based communities and households and a great number of people will remain Christian today for no other reason than the social norms and pressures that made them Christian yesterday. Ignorance is praised in Christian communities who value education, especially science. The blinding of children from a young age with Christian theology ultimately leads to the decline in intellectual people in the community. The reliance on a divine being in place of action and responsibility is part of the decrease in morality across America religious language no longer makes sense in modern societies. The term God, he wrote in 1963, is either meaningless or  Since it cannot tell us anything about reality as such--at least, nothing that can be made intelligible empirically--its only function is to express our attitudes, preferences, and feelings. And if what the word God does, the essential ethical message of Christianity can be expressed without reference to the Death of God Fifty Years On By Rose, Matthew In Ku Klux Klan, Conservative Politics and Religion: Taking Extremism to the Political The authors, Andrew Selepak and John Sutherland, discuss the relationship between the Ku Klux Klan and Christianity. They study the positive correlation involving white Christian conservatives and their acceptance of the values and beliefs. Traditional Christian views are still accepted despite the change in societal views, scientific advancements, and statistics. The growing branch of extremists are altering their messages and agendas to mimic Christian values and ultra-conservative politics ultimately justifying their organization as a pro-white, anti-immigration group who believes in conserving white culture and traditional ideology. The same method of deception is used in conservative views today. Conservative views tend to be Christian based and contain out of date, two thousand year biblical ideals such as homophobia, racism, and God given superiority. The tendency for conservatives to Kennedy 3 pursue to be in control of other lives reflects the strict rules and guidelines over Christian followers and the Christian desire to spread their faith as much as possible just as it states in the Bible, even if it results in going against the Constitution which states the separation of church and state. In Existence of Religion as a Survival the author, Ken Cleaver, discusses the desire and need for religion in society. The symbolic structure supplies the need for a purpose, a purpose that is predetermined by god who ultimately makes up for the of power or the disability of individuals or the community to handle In a changing world, Christianity is left behind and deemed as unimportant and irrational in a society where evidence and facts are needed in any opinion, statement, or claim to be valid. The decrease of power Christians and conservatives have in society has called for a white/Christian lash towards those who are opposed of their conservative ideals. This has been talked about by many journalist and experts. Christian desire for control, to be in power and the majority stays consistent throughout history as seen in the times of exploration, the conquistadors took over land to spread Christianity and to ensure the land would be ruled by their laws and kingdom. They forced natives to convert to Christianity and killed in the name of their God. In Side of Heaven: Race, Ethnicity, and Christian Alvaro Nieves and Robert Priest focus on the troubles Christian groups and churches have with the acceptance and changes required to diminish the historically traditional and conservative prejudges directed towards those of racial and ethnic minority with little success in the as well as the 6% rise in Christian hate group activities after September 11, 2001. Also discussed is the relationship with hate groups and their relationship with god, using it as a justification and empowerment method. Kennedy 4 In this article, it shows the relationship of Christianity and hate groups over time, from the to 2001 the survival of hate groups based on the Christian faith have failed to change. Reference page: Selepak, Andrew, and John Sutherland. Ku Klux Klan, Conservative Politics and Religion: Taking Extremism to the Political Politics, Religion & Ideology 13.1 (2012):75-98. Web BAKER, NICHOLAS M. Negative Impact on Modern American  Skeptic, vol. 20, no. 4, Dec. 2015, pp. 56-59. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN=11198 8510&site=eds-live Nieves, Alvaro L., and Robert J. Priest. This Side Of Heaven: Race, Ethnicity, And Christian Faith. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2007. eBook Collection (EBSCOhost). Web. 9 Feb. 2017. CLEAVER, KEN. The Practical And Ethical Considerations In Labeling A Religious Group As A  Journal For The Study Of Religions & Ideologies 11.33 (2012): 164-181. Humanities Source. Web. 13 Feb. 2017