Choto 1 Alicia M. Choto Segovia Mr. Spencer Bennington ENC1102.008 30 April 2017 The Bitter Taste of Chocolate: Child Labor The chocolate candy industry represents 100-billion-dollar market, and the foundations of this empire are in the cocoa bean. However, the harvest process of the cocoa bean is a dangerous work, especially for children who are forced to work in the cocoa farms in hazardous conditions. According to the International Labor Organization, more than 200,000 children are working in several forms of child labor in the Ivory Coast and Ghana (IPEC). The major chocolate companies have expressed their concerns and have started to launch organizations to solve the problem and to clean their brand image, some of these organizations are the Nestle Cocoa Plan or The World Cocoa Foundation, and all these projects shared a common goal, to reach cocoa sustainability free of child labor Chocolate is one of the most consumed products in the world, and each time that someone buys a cocoa product is contributing to the suffering of thousands of children in cocoa farms. But enjoying a chocolate should not be a cause of suffering for others, there are ways to solve the problem and to give the children a better quality of life, one of the best contribution that the chocolate consumers can make is to support the organizations that are fighting against child labor, giving them donation or buying their products. The initiatives to achieve cocoa sustainability will be effective when the public is aware of their actions and prefer those brands committed to end child labor in the cocoa farms. Choosing brands committed to end child labor should be the priority at the moment of buying cocoa products. Choto 2 One of the first and most effective projects against child labor is The Nestle Cocoa Plan. The most ambitious aspect of this project is to reduce child labor in West Africa by 70% by 2020. They want to give children the opportunity of a better quality of life by giving them access to education and providing a childhood free of child labor (Nestle Cocoa Plan). In words of Jose Lopez, Nestle Executive Vice President for Operations, use of child labor in our cocoa supply chain goes against everything we stand (Nestle), analyzing their results, they are clearly on their way of achieving their goal, as a result of their effectiveness, other projects have been created in South America and Asia to emulate the work of Nestle. Lopez also stated that one key aspect of the projects are the Nestle customers, since the funding for the project comes from a percentage of the profits of the Nestle products. To encourage the audience on continue supporting the cause, nestle released a campaign to show their progress in solving the problem and to show their customers that it has been possible thanks to them. This kind of campaign are surprising for the general public, because most of them are not aware of the use of children in the cocoa farm, the publicity that the issue is having nowadays is causing that more people is interested in being part of the solution of the problem. The Nestle camping was a good start, but to make a bigger impact in the public, the other major brands should emulate Nestle actions and inform the public of their work in the cocoa communities. The Nestle Cocoa Plan have made the difference in the lives of many children, but child labor is a major issue, and it needs more than the efforts of only one company to end the problem. Cooperation within the stakeholders is important, that is why the major brands came together to create The World Cocoa Foundation (WCF), which is an international membership organization that promotes sustainability in the cocoa sector and works to Choto 3 eradicate child labor from the industry. The benefits the most vulnerable communities in the cocoa industry, their main approach of to give the family of the children the tools needed to have enough resources to give education to their children and keep them away from working in the cocoa farms. children suffer because of the circumstances of their environment, and they deserve have the opportunities to change their (Cocoa Action) this is the vision that moves this partnership and need the support of all the stakeholders involve in the coca industry. The World Cocoa Foundation (WCF) works through public-private partnerships that bring together donors, industry members, producing country governments, research institutes and non-governmental organizations to achieve its goals. What makes different the WCF from other organization, is that normal people can become a member of the organization. The World Cocoa Foundation website, http://www.worldcocoafoundation.org/, has a list of its members that are supporting their work, between them outstand Mars products, Nestle and division, also their websites a forum for the public where their can post proposal o ideals to improve the children lives. Making critical decisions about the products that are consumed can make an enormous difference in the lives of the people who work in the manufacture chain (Bertrand). The first step to promote sustainability and fair conditions to the workers involve in the production of any good is being inform of the manufacture process and avoiding the brands that are not compromise in respect the labors rights and stop injustices as child labor. Even though the problem of child labor in the cocoa industry seen out of hands, and impossible for a common person to make the difference, there are several steps that can be taken to eradicate the problem, one of the most important is to support the Choto 4 brands that are part of The Word Cocoa Foundation or Nestle in Action. It is easy to recognize the products that donate to the cause, most of them have in their wrap a logo of the cause that they are supporting. Furthermore, avoid consuming brands of dubious sources, you can recognize these kinds of brand because they usually do not give information about their supply or the precedence of the ingredients that they use, one of those brands is Ghirardelli Chocolate Company, that does not report the origin of the cocoa that they use. At the end, the economic impact the public have in the cocoa industry is what make the difference, hence, the dollars that a person spend in a chocolate bar, can have a significant impact in the children lives. Choto 5 Works cited. Bertrand, Willian E. Elke de Buhr. Research on Child Labor in West African Cocoa Growing Payson Center at Tulane University. 2012- Ongoing. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. http://www.payson.tulane.edu/projects/survey-research-child-labor-west- african-cocoa-growing-areas Cocoa Action, Cocoa Web 10 Feb. 2017 http://www.worldcocoafoundation.org/about-wcf/cocoaaction/ International Programmed on the Elimination of Child Labor (IPEC) Child Labor in Cocoa Web. 23 Feb.2017. Nestle Cocoa Plan Web. 24 Feb. 2017. http://www.nestlecocoaplan.com/ Brian. Bitter  Fortune 173.3 (2016): 54-73. Business Source Premier. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.