Paul Edward Curry Instructor Karen Hanson ENC-1102 30 April 2017 Curry 1 We need to stop private prisons. The privatization of prisons has led to immense financial corruption and unethical action in the United States of America today. Financial corruption could be briefly explained as deceitful behavior dealing with money by men and woman in positions of power such as judges and other government officials and unethical action could be described as anything that is not morally correct. Most United States citizens would ask could I do something to help eliminate private This question could be simply answered by easily joining an organization or donating to an organization that is aimed towards eliminating private prisons. The leading organization for stopping private prisons is the American Bar Association also known as the ABA and this organization allows citizens to make a difference on something that they truly believe is an issue. The privatization of prisons needs to be put to an end and it starts by joining an organization and/or donating to an organization. Private prisons ultimately cost tax paying Americans over 20 billion dollars a year (Dilulio 66), and the prisons themselves in total make much more in a year. The privatization of prisons can happen in three major ways. First, the government may build the prison then outsource its operations to third parties. Second, private companies may run the prison from start to finish in which they finance, design, and construct the facilities and, once the buildings are erected, they eventually manage the prison. Third, the government may take a prison currently managed by the public sector and contract it out to a private company. In all three scenarios, the third-party company is then paid a daily or monthly rate either for the actual number of inmates it houses or the number of beds/places available (whether used or not) (ConnectUsFund). Today over 3.3 Million Americans, roughly one white male in every thirty-five prisoners and one black male in every Curry 2 nine prisoners are living behind bars in some sort of correctional institution (Dilulio 66). The United States of America is home to approximately 150,000 prisons and about 4,000 of those prisons are private. This privatization of prisons increases the war on drugs rather than putting an end to it. Most citizens would also assume, private prisons would have tough security because Americans are paying so much but this in fact is not true. According to Bloomberg which is a highly factual American weekly business magazine Guards are reported to be at a 60:1 prisoner to guard ratio in a standard private prison. Keeping this in mind it is proven that prisoners tend to kill, escape and commit other hateful crimes. Private prisons have an unbelievable effect on citizens although they are very unnoticeable. Private prisons claim to cost less than prisons ran by the state, while offering the same level of With poorly trained guards and higher turnover increase the risk of escapes, inmate violence and prisoner mistreatment, critics would say. The cost of poor quality is then shifted onto the public sector, as county or state police deal with escapees, court systems cope with prison lawsuits and public hospitals treat injured (Clement). Furthermore, researchers have documented higher rates of escapes from private (Isaacs 2012, 67). However, opponents of private prisons say they do not save states money because of their hidden cost (Bailey 2013). Private prisons have a negative effect on states and local governments. Unfortunately, the number of private prisons has been increasing since its origin in 1983. For-profit prisons have no real benefit and are bad investments for states (Bailey 2013). Private prisons ultimately cost taxpayers more money because they are paying taxes for private prisons as well as public prisons and the effects that the private prisons have on the surrounding community. Compared to public prisons, private prisons keep prisons an extra two to three months to make more money which is actually tax payer money. There was a study done on the Curry 3 private prisons in Mississippi and the University of Wisconsin states that the research found that prisoners in private facilities had an increase in their sentence of four to seven percent, which equaled 60 to 90 days for the average (Kerwin 2015). the average contractual payment to private prison operators in Mississippi being $50 for each bed occupied, an extra 60 days added to a sentence leads to an average additional cost per prisoner of about (Kerwin 2015). found that prisoners in every demographic, offense, and sentence length category accumulated more infractions if they were assigned to a private prison. Overall, inmates in private prisons received twice as many infractions as those in public prisons. In Mississippi, infractions are used by the state parole board in assessing whether a prisoner should be granted early (Kerwin 2015). prisons also hold an unknown percentage of people held in local jails in Texas, Louisiana, and a handful of other states. While supporters of private prisons advertise the idea that governments can save money through privatization, the evidence is mixed at best in fact, private prisons may in some instances cost more than governmental (ACLU 2017). As a citizen, be upset knowing that I was paying for a prison that is not saving any money. With many ways to aid to the extinction of private prisons you as a citizen can start to help. The top ways to stop private prisons are to donate to corporations that fight against the privatization of prisons and/or join one of the organizations stated below. According to NoNewPrisons.Org which is a collaboration of citizens and groups opposing new prison construction and expansion. The top organizations I would suggest the audience and other citizens to join would be the Architects / Designers / Planners for Social Responsibility (ADPSR 2017) who pledge to not participate in the design, construction, or renovation of prisons, working towards a society that treats all its members with dignity, equality, and justice, the November Curry 4 Coalition is a non-profit, grassroots organization with a mission to raise awareness in individuals and communities about the spiraling increase in numbers of imprisoned in the United States due to drug-law enforcement, the Justice Policy Institute who works to increase the age for children to be tried as adults to 18 and the American Bar Association who is one of the leading organizations that works to fight against private prisons and their judges (NoNewPrisons). Joining and or donating to these organizations allows you to make some sort of difference in the community and the private prison industry. Joining one or more of these organizations will allow you to have more control over what is going on in these private prisons and help end them which ultimately saves you the taxpayer money and stops unethical practice done behind bars. Now that you as the citizen have a clear understanding as to what is going on behind bars, why there needs to be change and how you can do something, it is in your hands to make a difference. Do not go on in this world letting it happen to yourself without doing something to change it. Do not let human-beings experience much violence and other unethical practices on your dime. Private prisons hurt this country, hurt our citizens and have far more cons than pros and need to be stopped. Stop funding private prisons and make a difference today by joining and or donation to the four organizations listed or any other anti-for-profit prison organizations. Curry 5 About  Architects/Designers/Planners for Social Responsibility. ADPSR Publishing, 30 Mar. 2017. Web. 28 Apr. 2017. About  About the American Bar Association. American Bar Association., 1 Jan. 2017. Web. 22 Apr. 2017. Bailey, Brandon. Private Prisons and Their Negative Effect on States and Local  Academia.edu., 30. Nov. 2013, Web 16. April. 2017 Clement, Douglas. Private vs. Public: The Prison  Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. January 2002 Issue, 1 Jan. 2002. Web. 28 Apr. 2017. https://minneapolisfed.org/publications/fedgazette/private-vs-public-the-prison-debate. Dilulio, Jordan. Wrong with Private The Public Interest New York Vol 0.92, Summer, 1998. Print. Isaacs, Caroline. Private Prisons: The Problem. Rep. Tucson: American Friends Service Committee-Arizona, 2012. Print. Kerwin, Peter. Study Finds Private Prisons Keep Inmates Longer, without Reducing Future  News. University of Wisconsin-Madison, 10 June 2015. Web. 28 Apr. 2017. Curry 6 http://News.Wisc.edu/study-finds-private-prisons-keep-inmates-longer-without-reducing- future-crime/ Newkirk, Margaret, and William Selway. Gangs Ruled Prison as For-Profit Model Put Blood on  Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg, 12 July 2013. Web. 28 Apr. 2017. https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2013-07-12/gangs-ruled-prison-as-for-profit- model-put-blood-on-floor. Private  American Civil Liberties Union. American Civil Liberties Union, 2017. Web. 28 Apr. 2017. <https://www.aclu.org/issues/mass-incarceration/privatization-criminal- justice/private-prisons>. US Groups Opposing Private  No New Prisons: Organizations and Groups Opposing New Prison Construction., 29 Mar. 2009. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. http://www.nonewprisons.org/action/groups.html. Who We  Corrections Corporation of America. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 April. 2017. http://www.cca.com/who-we-are.