Anand 1 Dhruv Anand Bob Botkin ENC 1102 18 April 2017 Is it worth ending the life of an animal for the sake of sport or the acquisition of a trophy? Imagine a human being trading places with the animal, consequently making them the target becoming a trophy for a rich wall. Today, people do not think about how they would feel if they were treated the same way they are treating others. Hunting animals has many advantages as animals are very useful and valuable. Rhinoceros horn is allegedly a cure of cancer and tusks are supposed to make different medicines. Hunting also generates a large amount of employment. However, there are people in the world who fulfill their basic needs such as food and shelter with the help of hunting. This proves that banning or ceasing hunting is not the solution but trophy hunting is bad since people are killing animals just to show how brave they are. Animals are becoming extinct because of trophy hunting. Rich people are paying thousands of dollars to national parks and zoos for hunting the endangered animal species especially in Africa. It is not worth killing an animal just for fun because animals have families too. If a parent gets killed by the trophy hunters then the babies of the animals could die of hunger because they do not know how to get food or live independently. Animal species are very important as they also maintain the balance of the biosphere of the environment and it is not fair to the animals that they are being killed for fun. Animals do not hunt or kill their prey or human beings for fun. They do it for a reason which is hunger. On the other hand, when trophy hunters do it just for fun, there is little to no advantage to it. Trophy hunting is just like killing a human Anand 2 being for fun and then using their head as a piece of decoration in jungles. This paper and multimodal argument proves that trophy hunting has no advantage and should be banned for the betterment of future generations. In this topic, wealthy people and various national parks play the role of stakeholders that are in support of trophy hunting. The general public and other wildlife conservation organizations are putting their best effort to ban trophy hunting of endangered species because it has no benefits, only consequences. Wealthy people are treating ending the life of animals similar to some other recreational activity. Many national parks in Africa are also selling the endangered animal species to trophy hunters in exchange of thousands of dollars. One of the best example of trophy hunting is Cecil, the lion which was a prey of trophy hunting. Wyatt Smith mentioned, a dentist from Minnesota have paid $54,000 to bow-hunt Cecil, a magnificent, blackmaned, 13 year-old lion who lived in Hwange National Park and was well known to (6). This shows that national parks are breaking the laws because trophy hunting is not allowed in national parks. However, incentivized by money, some tour guides and other employees of the national parks are selling the exotic and endangered animal species. This reflects the problem of corruption which comes up because of trophy hunting. The instance of Cecil the lion was one of the biggest reasons why the general public got together and started protesting against trophy hunting. Trophy hunting is generally done by rich people because a common middle class man or woman does not have thousands of dollars to pay for killing an innocent animal. Wealthy individuals and national parks should understand that trophy hunting is bad and this is not a right way to treat innocent animals. Ceasing trophy hunting will save thousands of animal species which are on the verge of extinction. Wilson says that, These iconic and disappearing animals Anand 3 are worth more as dead trophies to be mounted and hung on a wall in a Texas mansion than living in the wild in Africa but people should focus more on ecotourism raising money from people willing to pay to see endangered animals in the (10). Ecotourism can help to maintain the economy of a country because more tourists from different countries will visit that country just to see the endangered species. If some animal species gets extinct, it will directly affect the number of tourists because there is nothing significant left to see in their wildlife sanctuary or national park which will result in the depletion of the economy. Many wildlife conservation organizations such as the U.S Fish & Wildlife Service have organized different protests against trophy hunting to tell the general public that trophy hunting should be banned. In addition people have taken actions by participating in protest against the national parks. The solution to this problem is in the hands of the government. Government should make strict laws stating that if any trophy hunter kills an endangered species for their own good, there will be harsh action taken against them, for instance imprisonment or thousands of dollars in fines. Alexander Simon talks about some actions which should be taken by the government: and policymakers should step up their review of how responsibly African nations are managing hunting practices, particularly for wildlife populations that are under stress of trophy hunting, loss of habitat and other (5). This review will make the national parks and wildlife sanctuaries in Africa a safer place for endangered animal species to live because trophy hunters will no longer be able to bribe the security guards of national parks to engage in trophy hunting. Government has a different role in stopping trophy hunting because it is the creator of most rules or laws for any social matter. Society also plays a vital role in saving endangered animal species because the sooner people start taking action against it by protesting or running campaigns against it, the sooner government will know that society is Anand 4 having conflicts with this and would take action because government has a big responsibility to take action against everything creating a problem for the society. That is why our actions and voices are very important for making a difference or taking action for the improvement of the future lives. Trophy hunting should be banned because animals have a right to live too and trophy hunting only affects society in a negative because it has drawbacks like corruption, poverty, money and many more. Trophy hunting give a boost to corruption as they give bribes to national parks for hunting endangered species. Beckie Elgin mentioned that, 3% of the revenue generated by trophy hunting goes towards local communities, with most being concentrated among a few individuals. This creates resentment among (11). This shows that trophy hunting is a cause of poverty too. Taking some life is not worth it, that is why trophy hunting should be banned. In the end, the decision is in our hand whether we want to be against trophy hunting or we are just going to ignore the problem which is directly affecting our society and the future generation. Money is also a big issue because of trophy hunting. According to U.S Fish and Wildlife Service, an average, trophy hunting generates around 1.8% of total tourist revenue in African countries. Ecotourism have been shown to generate 15 times the revenue of trophy hunting (4). This proves that fees paid by the trophy hunters is not even making a big difference in the economy because it is very less. Ceasing trophy hunting will make the area safer for the endangered species and ecotourism will keeps on generating revenue they are making. Trophy hunting is the only problem which is affecting ecotourism because it is reducing the population of exotic and endangered species. Not killing innocent animals for fun has much more benefits than killing them in every aspect whether it is moral value of a normal human being or value of an economist. Anand 5 Work Cited Shoot To  Earth Island Journal 29.1 (2014): 4-5. Guide Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Elgin, Beckie. Hounding The  Earth Island Journal 30.4 (2016): 30-36. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Simon, Alexander. Against trophy hunting: a Marxian-Leopoldian  Monthly Review 2016: 17. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Smith, Wyatt. Endangered Species Act Or Extradition?: Protecting Foreign Species In The Aftermath Of The Cecil The Lion  Vermont Journal Of Environmental Law 18.1 (2016): 55. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. ttps://www.google.com/amp/s/howtoconserve.org/2015/08/21/trophy-hunting-myths/amp/