Edgington 1 Emily Edgington Spencer Bennington English Composition II 30 April 2017 (Un)locked and Loaded On March 29th 2017 at 9:17 P.M. the Pasco county police department responded to a report of a four year old boy who suffered a gunshot wound. The child was staying with his grandmother that night and while she was in the bathroom, he wandered into her room, spotted a gun, and accidentally shot himself in the abdomen. In the past year alone, 672 children in America were injured or killed as a result of gun violence. This little boy from Zephyrhills, FL is one of the lucky ones. He was rushed to the hospital immediately following the accident and is expected to make a full recovery. Sadly, this is not the fate of many children affected by gun violence every day. (ABC Action News). Child gun violence is arguably the most tragic breed of crime, and every sane person can unite in the opinion that it must be stopped. In an effort to reduce the scope of this tragedy, the National Rifle Association (NRA) has developed a program to teach children the fundamentals of gun safety, the Eddie Eagle Gun Safe Program. The first step to creating a viable solution to any problem, is knowing the facts of the matter. Many studies have collected data on gun violence affecting children and the findings are abhorrent: Over 1.69 million American children and teens are living in homes with loaded and unlocked firearms ... 73% of these children ages nine and under reported knowing the location of their parents guns, including many whose parents said the location was  (smartgunlaws.org). According to this study published by a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization, Edgington 2 nearly one million children could access firearms in their home at any time. Children might want to access their parents guns for any number of reasons; to show to a friend, to play a game, simple curiosity, etc. Most children do not realize the stark difference between a toy gun and a real gun, and could easily use the latter in a playful, yet harmful manner. Since children do not have an innate grasp on the dangerous nature of guns, they must be taught what to do if they ever find themselves in a situation with a firearm of any sort. Thankfully, the NRA has recognized the calamity that is gun violence and has been steadfastly dedicated to promoting firearm safety in a number of unique contexts: While you may have disagreements with the NRA, you argue that anyone has a better track record of promoting safety as they do. what this is all about- about (capitalnews.vcu.edu). Political ideologies aside, gun violence is an issue; a concrete and cruel concern especially when it affects children, and something must be done. The NRA specifically states in their bylaws: a mission to promote public safety, law and order, and the national  (guidestar.org). With this as one of their overarching principles, the NRA has created an education program specifically tailored to a young audience to articulate a safe response to encountering a firearm. The program is a five day program created by Dr. Lisa Monroe who has a PhD in Early Childhood Education. During the program, children are taught to Stop, touch, run away, tell a grown  (NRA.org). The curriculum utilizes fun cartoon animals to easily engage the children and help them retain the information. This carefully crafted educational response to childhood gun violence is aimed to give children the skills that they need before they ever find themselves in this potentially dangerous situation. Edgington 3 Children are taught how to react in many disadvantageous situations. They are taught what to do in case of a fire, how to handle interactions with strangers, sexual education, and many other topics. Why should gun safety be any different when it affects so many children on a daily basis? Eddie Eagle Gun Safe Program is available to be taught in schools, at home, and even online. Many states are already lobbying to implement this program into legislation, which is a step in the right direction. Mandarin Oaks Elementary School in Jacksonville FL is just one of the many schools that have decided to implement this program and have found it to be extremely beneficial. When the superintendent of schools in Duval County received criticism for her decision, she responded: The Eddie Eagle Gun Safety Program was chosen because its message is packaged in an engaging and easily-relatable presentation that resonates with students. This is key because the safety of our students is one of our highest priorities. The program does not contain any messaging about gun ownership, use of firearms, endorsements, or political perspectives. Please note this is a voluntary presentation and parents may choose to opt their child out of participating. many children grow up not being exposed to gun safety (Jacques). While it is great that some schools have chosen to implement this program into their curriculum there is still more that can be done. Parents, teachers, school personnel, and family members alike can assist the crucial cause of ending child gun violence. The NRA has included unique ways of getting involved for every stakeholder. Contact your local PTA board, the principal or superintendent of your school and let them know that you think the Eddie Eagle Gun Safe program would be advantageous for every Edgington 4 child. Voice your concern to your state legislature and governor. If no immediate action is taken in the schools, educate your children yourself. Show them the informative video on the website and breach the conversation of gun safety with your child. If no change is forged then the harrowing tragedy will continue to grow. A simple educational program could save your life. Act now! The sooner they know, the better. Visit to make a difference today. Edgington 5 Works Cited Cors, Allan D. National Rifle Association of  Our GuideStar, q n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Posted at 7:13 Pm on November 3, 2016 by Jenn Jacques. Florida Mom Livid After School q Teaches Gun Safety  N.p., 03 Nov. 2016. Web. 30 q Apr. 2017. Atayee, Alli. Statistics on Guns in the Home & Safe  Center to Prevent Gun q Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Ramos, Lauren Rozyla Jillian. Neighbors Scared of Gun Violence at Central Court q  N.p., 16 Feb. 2017. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. NRA  N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.