Spikes 1 Tiana Spikes ENC 1102 Professor Lay 13 April 2017 Parents for Gun-Safety If I told you your five-year-old son saw where you put your loaded gun away yesterday and now is at home playing with it, would you be frightened? Of course, one would automatically think the worst, him possibly shooting himself or someone else or him possibly killing himself or someone else. But who would be to blame? There is no way a five-year-old would be charged with this crime, the parents would be. Moms and dads would be guilty in this situation, one, for failing to lock up and hide their weapon and two, for failing to educate their kids on how to handle these gun situations appropriately. Gun violence is very prominent in the United States and in recent numbers have risen and access to them has become easier. So, parents we need you to play a bigger role in protecting your children. Some may think my kids playing with guns and although that may be true, parents just like you are losing their children every day to gun violence and it could easily be you. In this piece, I will first educate you on some of the gun violence issues in homes and in communities, I will then notify what is at stake for you, and lastly, I will provide you with information on how to stop illegal dealings and also give steps on how to lock up and store your guns appropriately in order to keep your children safe. Moms, did you know the United numbers and statistics for gun violence in just this past year are extraordinarily mind blowing? According to Nature News Journal of Science, 2016 was a horrible year for the Country. In the Nature News article it stated that Spikes 2 approximately 6,000 people died from just gun activity alone in this one year. That is not including deaths due to natural causes and age, only gun violence. It was said also by Nature News that the U.S experienced over 150 mass shootings in 2016. If one is not sure what that is, a mass shooting according to Christopher Ingraham a Washington Post Publicist, is an act of terror in which 4 or more people are targeted by means of killing and injuring, he stated this in his recent article titled Makes a in 150 is a very large number when considering occurrences of not just individual deaths but multiple deaths for each mass shooting incident. Mass shootings and terrorist are not the only cause of gun violence; Next door neighbors, criminals, and children not of age are able to access guns every day with no barriers. Illegal gun dealings happen every hour in the United States, making neighborhoods more dangerous for children to roam through. Background checks are not required for these dealings and often children under the age of 18 can purchase the weapons if they have the funds requested. Therefore, these weapons end up in the hands of the unfit. By unfit I mean people not suitable or illegally prohibited from carrying them. Another easy way for underage children to have access to guns is by their parents. With this, the children are already at a higher risk of being involved in gun violence from easy access at home. Which brings me to my next point. What could possibly be at stake for you? Are you willing to risk you or your lives? Failing to educate your children on guns and failing to keep guns away from them is exactly that, risking their lives. The scenario in my first paragraph is a prime example of what your future could hold and what could eventually be at stake for you. Parents make mistakes sometimes no question, but sometimes those mistakes are going to cost you. A mistake such as, slipping up and leaving your gun somewhere Spikes 3 the kids could find it, could definitely cost you life. That is, if the children mishandle the firearm. Now, one may think that the chances of this happening are very slim and unlikely but, the complete opposite. To add on, children and gun numbers are more significant than one may think. According to Taryn Morrissey Professor at American University 1 in 3 homes have children living inside with loaded and unlocked guns and 3 out of 4 children ages 5-14 know where firearms are kept inside their homes. The numbers may not seem that significant but the last statistic I found intriguing also came from Professor Morrissey, she stated that 80% of firearm deaths that are accidental occur in the homes by children 15 years of age or younger. These facts are very important when one is considering keeping their family safe. If there are guns in a house with young children they will most likely stumble across it at a point in time and want to experiment with it. Numerous devastations have occurred when overseers thought their weapons were well hidden and safely stored. So, what should you do? If your main priority is keeping your children safe, the first action you need to take is taking time out to educate them on the topic. Most often, accidents occur because unfamiliarity and mishandling of the weapon, so eliminate these factors. Whether you have a gun in the house or not, the children should always no how to retaliate if they come across one. Teach the children to follow these simple steps if they come into contact with a gun: 1) stop what they are doing. 2) Do not touch the gun. 3) Leave the area where the gun is right away. 4) Tell an adult immediately. Educating kids to follow these simple steps will help them sustain from accidental gun incidents. Spikes 4 For parents who do have guns in the home with their children or plan to purchase a gun, there are precautions you should take and consider before ever setting the gun down. The first thing you should make sure of is that you take the ammunition out of the gun. The second step is to take the gun and the ammunition and lock them up separately, be sure that it is out of the reach of the children. The last and most critical step is to make sure you store the keys for the ammunition and gun in a place apart from the household keys. This will make it harder for the weaponry to be found and accessed. If you want to do more than just protect your household, you can partake in more political movements. If safety in the community is also a priority for you, one could write to their representative. When writing to your representative you will be urging him to support the expansion of background checks. This will help stop illegal dealing of guns and prevent people with mental issues or criminal backgrounds from purchasing them. This act will not completely eliminate gun violence but will decrease the occurrences at a large rate and aid in creating safer environments for children. In closing, gun violence is no new issue to the United States, and the safety of the children depends upon the parent. If parents step up and take on a bigger role when it comes to protecting their young, who will? The future is in your hands. Educate the young on how to handle guns appropriately avoid the topic because this leads to unawareness and unawareness leads to accidents. Talk about the problem and how it could be prevented, give the steps to follow if they were ever to come into contact with a gun. Lastly, write to your representative and push for more advanced, in- depth background checks. If parents worked together to do these things in due time death statistics amongst the young would decrease, accidental mishaps would lessen in numbers and the rate at which we are using our young people Spikes 5 to gun violence would weaken. Educate the young and protect the young this is how you will save the children and create a better future them. Will you for your sake? Spikes 6 Works Cited At Gunpoint: The Problem of Gun Violence in the United States Must Finally Be  Nature, no. 7608, 2016, p. 436. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.456095042&site=eds-live. Ingraham, Christopher. What makes a in  The Washington Post. WP Company, 03 Dec. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2015/12/03/what-makes-a- Morrissey, Taryn W. Associations between Active Shooter Incidents and Gun Ownership and Storage among Families with Young Children in the United  Preventive Medicine, vol. 100, 01 July 2017, pp. 50-55. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.ypmed.2017.04.002. Rostron, Allen. Cease Fire: A Strategy on Gun Policy for The Obama  Harvard Law & Policy Review 3.2 (2009): 347-367. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 13. Apr. 2017. Tracy, Melissa, et al. The Transmission of Gun and Other Weapon-Involved Violence within Social  Epidemiologic Reviews, vol. 38, no. 1, Jan. 2016, p. 70. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edb&AN=113339493&site=eds-live. Spikes 7