Salem 1 Sulaiman Salem Mrs. Nancy Carr ENC 1101.004S17 5 March 2017 Timeline of Non-renewable Resources We can imagine that got a limit on the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, which we physically (the world explode once we reach the limit), however we just know that there may be harsh consequences once the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere increases past a certain point. Therefore, with that in mind we can describe and tabulate how the area under the theoretical limit was filled up. To begin we need to credit the carbon dioxide been happening way before our we ever came to existence or know about processes that emit carbon dioxide, which is the natural emission of carbon dioxide that come from ocean-atmosphere exchange, plant and animal respiration, soil respiration and decomposition as well as volcanic activity. All these different types of emissions have been increasing at a steady pace over the years and was all the carbon dioxide emission that the planet had to be worried about, it until we came in with our industrial revolution that natural emission of carbon dioxide has significantly decreased in percentage in comparison with other ways of carbon dioxide emission that are being created along with the industrialization of the world. This brings rise to human related carbon dioxide emissions which includes fossil fuel use, industrial processes and land use changes. The human activity been going on along the Salem 2 years has been very costly with 87% human related carbon dioxide emissions originating from fossil fuel use. With this exponential increase of carbon dioxide emissions being produced, which has been by 90% since 1970, it cannot be denied that human activity has played a large part on the overall scale of carbon dioxide emissions and edging us closer towards our imaginary limit. The realisation of the potential danger that carbon dioxide emissions from fuel combustion and industrial processes was seen early on by one Svante Arrhenius around 1896 who theorized the relation between the atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide and the global temperatures which consequently lead him to his claim which the first to state that fossil fuel combustion may eventually result in enhanced global warming. See now it was simply a claim early on by Mr. Arrhenius was all theoretical, and due to the time period it was offered up in been able to be backed by data of great significance, but it was all that was needed to get the ball rolling and the conversation started on the topic of carbon dioxide level of affect on the global temperatures. So it began, the cautionary tale that select scientists who have been studying the effects after Mr. claim have been telling to the scientific community and the tale being pushed to the back of mind due to lack of importance for that particular moment. Although it has been gaining more and more data proving the claim, people either see its importance at that time, or chose to neglect it because it might have an effect in the field that the certain scientist is in and may jeopardise his occupation, or even if they were smart use it as an omen telling them to suck out as much as they can out of the industries that may have potential handicaps placed on them once governments decide to give this research importance. This gave Salem 3 rise to the second industrial revolution and its that of providing electricity, chemicals to the masses allowing area like public health to grow exponentially relative to that time. World War I was an indicator that countries needed industrial societies to cover their back by providing the energy for their side to continue. Then after that came the discovery of oil reserves on land and several offshore too, this created the global realisation of the excess to cheap energy that must be used to catapult countries and economies to greater heights consequently opening the the Texas and Persian Gulf reserves. World War II ensues largely being motivated by countries greed and their realisation that the oil reserves are basically power and got into a power struggle with the world for it. At this point the whole world realised the potential advancement and conflict that may come from oil reserves around the world so with that stemmed the wisdom from some people to create and place government agencies at the epicentre of all happening with relation to global climate and oils relation to it. In the US they have made it key to have a certain division within every sector of their social government that has something to do with climate change and basically them broadly covering up all angles of their government. However, key departments within the US government are the Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) within the US Department of Commerce (USDC), which acts as an outreach program which tries to educate the public on the matter of global climate change and keeping up with updates regarding it to inform the public, and the Energy Information Administration (EIA) within the Department of Energy (USDE) which is basically the department which carries out all the experiments and collects all the data that then will be studied and relayed over to the public. Internationally, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Salem 4 (IPCC) that was created by the United Nations, specifically their Environment Programme (UNEP), and the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) to show the scientific view on the latest with global climate change to the masses. These led to the formation of treaties and accords like the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement, which are treaties that dictate greenhouse emissions.