Mihm 1 Mason Mihm Ms. Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 2 March 2017 Why Parents Should Involve Children in Sports Obesity, diabetes, cancer, heart disease, the list of health-related illnesses goes on and on. However, to drastically reduce these fatal health issues for future generations, there is one simple change parents of the world can make. That change is, involving their children in physical activity. Although this is an easy change to make, parents must be fully informed. The current issue is that parents are unsure if they should involve their children in sports/physical activity or not. Parents are unsure because they are not aware if the advantages outweigh the disadvantages. To no surprise, lots of research has been done and the research, overwhelmingly, supports the decision to involve children in physical activity. Substantial health benefits in childhood and adulthood have been observed, as opposed to children that do not participate in physical activity. Since 2010, global conversations surrounding the benefits of parents involving their children in sports has not changed because research still proves the correlation between physical activity and healthy lives. In 2010, research surrounding this topic focused on the connection between physical activity and health in children, as well as how activity levels have a long-term effect on their future adult lives. Research conducted by Ian showed how Canada created recommendations to increase physical activity because they were aware of the numerous health benefits. Health benefits including, but not limited to, high cholesterol, high Mihm 2 blood pressure, obesity, low bone density, and depression. Although the overall conversation has not changed, according to Ian Janssen, Canada believes that children increase the time they spend on moderate-to-vigorous intensity physical activity by 30 minutes per day, and over a 5 month period progress to adding an additional 90 minutes of daily physical (1). By the end of research, results indicated that even modest amounts of activity could have health benefits on the children. In addition, research also analyzed how childhood physical activity would affect the children when they become adults. According to Colin Boreham, the author of the article, The Physical Activity, Fitness and Health of Children, is a biological carry-over effect into adulthood, whereby improved adult health status results from childhood physical activity. In particular, childhood obesity may be a precursor for a range of adverse health effects in adulthood, while higher bone masses in young people reduce the risk of osteoporosis in old (915). This is not a hard concept to grasp. However, it requires people to view childhood physical activity from a different perspective. As one can tell, the conversation surrounding childhood physical activity is being investigated for the long-term benefits as well as present ones. Approximately one year later, the conversation surrounding the benefits of increased physical activity among youth broadened. Although physical activity benefits still yielded the same results, young people with developmental disabilities were brought into the conversation in 2011. According to Andrew Pitchford, these results suggest that youth with disabilities whose parents and caregivers have more positive beliefs of the benefits of physical activity are adequately active for more days during a (29). This quote shows that when making the decision to involve their disabled children in sports, these parents and caregivers already had the beneficial factors in mind. Therefore, these parents were already aware of the general census Mihm 3 surrounding this conversation and encouraged more exercise because of their positive beliefs in the effects it will have on their children. Furthermore, this quote supports the fact that benefits of physical activity among children is a trending topic that the public is aware of. As research continued to evolve over the years, more information was gathered. In 2014, a research article titled Participation and Parent-Reported Health-Related Quality of Life in Children: Longitudinal was published. This article focused on clearly identifying which health factors are affected by physical activity. As defined in the article, the characteristics of health-related quality of life, or HRQOL, include physical, emotional, social, and school functioning. Stewart Vella, the primary author, states encompasses an perceptions, beliefs, expectations, and experiences relative to their physical, social, and psychological (1469). HRQOL is becoming of increasing importance to chronic conditions and diseases, such as cancer, heart disease, and diabetes can be caused by low levels of physical activity. As one can tell, HRQOL consists of many factors and is important to keep in good standing to carry out a healthy lifestyle. This article does an excellent job of explaining the medical benefits of participating in sports through scientific research. Since the research associated with parents involving their children in sports is still supported, the scholarly conversation has not changed since 2010. However, the conversation has broadened. Over time, the conversation shifted from long-term effects to the specific medical conditions that can be reduced or prevented through physical activity participation. All in all, it is evident that participation in physical activity is a major factor in increasing and maintaining a healthy lifestyle among children and adults. Mihm 4 Works Cited Boreham, Colin, and Chris Riddoch.  The physical activity, fitness and health of  Journal of Sports Sciences (2010): 915-929. Routledge Taylor & Francis Group. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Janssen, Ian, and Allana Leblanc. Systematic Review of the Health Benefits of Physical Activity and Fitness in School-Aged Children and  International Journal of Behavioral Nutrition and Physical Activity (2010): 183-219. BioMed Central. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Pitchford, E. Andrew, Erin Siebert, Jessica Hamm, and Joonkoo Yun. Parental Perceptions of Physical Activity Benefits for Youth With Developmental  American Journal on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities 121.1 (2016): 25-32. Ebscohost. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Vella, Stewart A., Dylan P. Cliff, Christopher A. Magee, and Anthony D. Okely. Sports Participation and Parent-Reported Health-Related Quality of Life in Children: Longitudinal  The Journal of Pediatrics 164.6 (2014): 1469-474. Ebscohost. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.