Nguyen 1 Duyen Nguyen ENC 1102 Bennington 30 April 2017 Close the Gender Pay Gap Imagine spending hours at the library studying for an exam but ending up not getting a perfect score even though you had all of questions correct. If you turn the scenario into a greater scale, you will have half of the population, in another word, you will have majority of the female population in the United States. been reported recently that women make approximately 24 percent less than men, meaning that women only earn 76 cents for every dollar earned by men (Pascale, 2016). Highly involved in the issue in America is the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), an organization who works to ensure everyone receives the right earning despite his or her gender, age, or racial background while advocating the passage of a new stricter law (Equal Pay for Equal Work). Gender pay gap is a topic that should not be avoided by anyone, especially when involved the young generations and their future society. The issue not only affects women but also families, federal laws, and economy of a country. Students at the University of South Florida can take a part of the movement and stand against gender pay gap at the Inaugural Women who Ignite Student Engagement Student Symposium with USF Women in Leadership & Philanthropy. Fifteen million family households are affected every day from gender paycheck inequality. The lost wages mean less support and invest for women and their families, resulting in children not having enough opportunities and material goods to grow like other children their age. than 15 million family households in the United States are headed by women. About 29 percent of those families, or 4,374,354 family households, have incomes that fall below the Nguyen 2 poverty This data reported by the National Partnership for Women & Families (NPWF) highlights the absence of necessary materials that some families endure resulting from the missing wages of the household heads. No child should be suffered from wage inequality or deserved to grow under the discrimination that society places on their parents. The Women in Leadership and Philanthropy (WLP) at the University of South Florida, whom focused on advocating support for women, has dedicate nearly $1 million in scholarships to the future generation of women leaders in the community. To be involves with the WLP is to be involved in helping the young generation finding the support they need or missing from family and society. Putting a few households together, we have a community. Putting communities together, we have society that not only tolerates inequity, but also discrimination. Putting an end to gender pay gap will implement the current federal laws and strengthen a society that does not tolerate gender based discrimination for the future generations. Passed in 1963, the Equal Pay Act was signed into law to protect men and women from sex discrimination at workplace. According to the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), Tittle Vll of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 makes it illegal to discriminate pay based on sex and that any violation regarding the act may go directly to court. The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission implements the Equal Pay Act to enforce prohibition gender wage discrimination between men and women carrying the same job. It is no longer an issue regarding morality but an issue regarding violation against the laws. Future generation will not experience this problem if everyone in society enforces it. WLP supports USF student research regarding federal government and laws by providing funds and scholarships. Being involved in the WLP provides young leaders with national connection and broader choices of opportunity. Nguyen 3 Gender pay gap hinders the improvement of economy by promoting social inequity, affecting the development of young generation. Women are paid less than men with similar education. are often out-earned by men with less education: The typical woman with a graduate degree earns $5,000 less than the typical man with a Carolyn B. Maloney, ranking member of the U.S. Congress Joint Economic Committee (JEC) said in a statement. Not only unfair to half of the population, it also has a negative effect on the economy. It was reported that the U.S. economy is $2 trillion bigger now than it would have been if women participated in the workplace since 1970 (Dishman). By increasing earnings throughout the lifecycle, the risk of falling into poverty will be reduced. The at-risk-of-poverty rate is around 22 percent for women over 65, compared to 16 percent of men over 65. Social roles and personal income play an important role in shaping the economy. Historical events such as the Civil War and Martin Luther King movement are saved in the book to remind everyone about the heroic events that once brought the country together to fight against discrimination. People say to learn from the past but what can the next generation learn from the current society if the current generation tolerates gender based discrimination. against the laws and also ethically wrong to tolerant gender pay gap. A woman working full time, year-round, earns $10,800 less per year than a man, based on median annual earnings. This adds up to nearly a half million dollars over a career (Dishman). This inequality is unacceptable. Students at the University of South Florida can be a part in the movement and join the USF Women in Leadership & Philanthropy at the Inaugural Women who Ignite Student Engagement Student Symposium (WISE) to present topic of gender pay gap with other USF students through workshops and presentations. WISE Symposium is a student-led program that enables the next generation to hear about some of the most conservational topics and exchange Nguyen 4 ideas. Visionary leaders and philanthropists will also be giving presentations along with personal advice and story. Be the voice for gender pay gap and participate at the next symposium that will be taking place in October 2017. For volunteer opportunities or more information about the event, contact wlp@usf.edu or call 813.974.4070. Nguyen 5 Reference Equal Pay for Equal Work. (2017). Retrieved from American Civil Liberties Union: https://www.aclu.org/equal-pay-equal-work-pass-paycheck-fairness-act Dishman, L. (2016, April 15). Why The Gender Wage Gap Might Ruin The Future U.S. Economy. Retrieved April 20, 2017, from https://www.fastcompany.com/3058740/why-the- gender-wage-gap-might-ruin-the-future-us-economy Gender Inequality, Income and Growth: Are Good Times Good for Women? (n.d.). Retrieved April 20, 2017, from http://www.gsdrc.org/document-library/gender-inequality-income-and- growth-are-good-times-good-for-women/ What is the gender pay gap and is it real?: The complete guide to how women are paid less than men and why it be explained away. (n.d.). Retrieved April 20, 2017, from http://www.epi.org/publication/what-is-the-gender-pay-gap-and-is-it-real/ Why is it important to tackle the gender pay gap? (n.d.). Retrieved April 20, 2017, from