Pugh 1 Sara Pugh ENC1102 Professor Van Winkle 26 April 2017 No More Beyond the Bell Programs On March 16, 2017, President Donald Trump released his budget proposal eliminating around $54 billion dollars of funding to federal programs and agencies. Within these cuts, he plans to remove $1.6 billion on after-school and summer programs. After-school programs are something almost everyone can relate to, no matter if you went to public or private school. These programs not only provide students extra assistance outside of the classroom, but a place to socialize with other kids their age after a full day of learning. The component that we, the students, did not fully comprehend until we got older, is that these after-school programs are child care for our parents until they were able to get off work. Private after-school programs are funded through the tuition, but public schools receive federal funding for these programs. We, the students that already went through the K-12 public school systems, and you, the parents of students currently in the K-12 public school system, need to join forces to stop the budget proposal from being passed by Congress. We need to share our personal stories to our legislators about how the cuts will affect us and how the after-school programs helped us directly or indirectly. To allow our voices to be heard, the Education Equity Group (EEG) will be hosting a Phone-a-thon on April 28, 2016 at every Hillsborough County Public School. Mick Mulvaney, Office of Management and Budget Director, said no demonstrable evidence actually helping results, helping kids do better at  when commenting on the after-school programs. Time magazine responded by publishing Pugh 2 contradicting data to the controversial comment. The magazine mentions the U.S Department of 2013-2014 school year report. In this report, it was noted that of students improved their homework completion and in-class participation. More than a third of participants also improved their grades in math and (Reilly) all thanks to the after-school programs. The Washington Post published an article the same day as the budget proposal was unveiled. In this article, Brigit Laird, chief executive of Wings for Kids, shares her opinion on how detrimental the proposal could end up being. Wings for Kids is a non-profit organization that provides an after-school program for students to get social and educational help. She said, imagine if that were turned off (the after-school programs) all of those kids running around the Without the federal funding, these children will have to find something else to do after-school that is probably not good for them. Arnold Schwarzenegger responded to Mulvaney discussing the safety aspect of the after- school programs. He said, all have heard so much from law enforcement that they say between 3 and 6 is a danger zone for When children are not being supervised, that is when they find themselves getting into trouble. The U.S. Department of Justice found data saying, one fifth (19%) of juvenile violent crimes occur in the 4 hours between 3 p.m. and 7 p.m. on school (OJJDP) If the after-school programs were to disappear, this percentage of juvenile violent crimes during the after-school hours would dramatically increase. The rate of violent crimes in juveniles is already five times higher in the after-school hours than any other time of day so it makes no sense to remove funding from the after-school programs that keep them off the streets. After-school programs need more funding, not budget cuts. In low socioeconomic areas, parents depend on the free or relatively affordable after-school programs. These parents need to Pugh 3 maintain a full time job to be able to support their families. The after-school programs enable the parents to have a full day of work and not worry about the safety of their child. The Afterschool Alliance, a non-profit organization designed to fight for all children to have after-school programs available, reported facts about the relationship between concentrated poverty and after- school programs. They reported number of students living in concentrated poverty who would take part in an after-school program if it were available to them was 56 Only a reported 24 percent were able to actually participate in the after-school programs. After-school programs need more funding, not less. That is why we have to have our voices be heard by the government. The Education Equity Group is a nationwide group of students fighting for the equity of all students. The University of South Florida chapter will be teaming up with our local community for its first ever, Phone-a-thon on April 28, 2016. Members will be spreading out all over Hillsborough County in order for the Phone-a-thon to be successful. At the Phone-a-thon, parents, teachers, and students can call into the front desk or lobby from 3 pm until 10 pm to find out the phone number of their senator and representative. After they receive their phone numbers, they will be encouraged to share their personal experience, with the legislators, on the public school after-school programs. We want the legislators to be aware that we as a county are not going to stand for the budget cuts. We also will have phones set up where the EEG members will be answering calls so that if someone does not have a phone, they are still able to call their legislators. For the you, the students of University of South Florida, there will be phones for you to use in the Marshall Student Center lobby if you do not have a phone. You can also stop by the table in the MSC if you would like an EEG member to look up the legislators for your area. Pugh 4 After-school programs benefit everyone. President Trump should be increasing $1.6 billion of federal funding towards after-school programs, not cutting it. Children need to have a safe place to go after a long day at school. Some of these programs provide food to the students which potentially could be their only food for the rest of the day. The benefits of after-school programs are endless. Parents receive extra time to stay at their job, students get time to socialize with other kids their age, receive additional help on their schoolwork, and the list goes on and on for the benefits of these programs. These after-school programs are necessary for the success of students and right now, they are in jeopardy. We need to save the education system for the future generations of students by speaking up before too late. In order to do so, please call your local legislators on April 28, 2017 from 3 to 10 p.m. One simple testimony to your legislator really does make a difference, so make a big change together. Pugh 5 Works Cited Afterschool  Facebook. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Brown, Emma. Trump budget casualty: After-school programs for 1.6 million kids. Most are  The Washington Post. WP Company, 16 Mar. 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Cnn. White House lays out cuts to Meals on Wheels, after-school  WFTX. N.p., 16 Mar. 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Justice, National Center for Juvenile. Juvenile violent crime time-of-day profiles. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Apr. 2017. Merica, Dan. Trump proposes $54 billion in cuts to federal  CNN. Cable News Network, 27 Feb. 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Taylor, Jessica, Danielle Kurtzleben, and Scott Horsley. Trump Unveils Budget That Boosts Military  NPR. NPR, 16 Mar. 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Trump Budget: Studies Show Benefit of After-School  Time. Time, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.