Rivera 1 Marielisa Rivera Karen Hanson Enc 1102 16 April 2017 Hydraulic Fracturing, Burning the Candle on Both Ends People continue to deplete non-renewable resources much quicker than the natural ability to replace them. New methods that allow for the extraction of oil and natural gas will continue to expand the industry. Recently in the last few decades, hydraulic fracturing, (fracking) has become a commercial enterprise surpassing traditional drill sites for oil in the United States. Joshua Pritchard discusses fracking as, mechanical process that uses fluid pressure to release quantities of petroleum or natural gas from deep below the (Pritchard). A consequence of this method of natural gas extraction is that it causes environmental degradation. Although fracking is a useful technique to extract shale oil and natural gas, the environmental hazards it presents far exceeds the benefits and will require numerous individuals to pressure lawmakers to ban fracking. The mining of these resources has evolved into several controversial issues regarding the risks to the environment. Fracking involves the use of high pressure and chemicals to break down the shale bed, increasing the opportunity to contaminate aquifers. Aquifers, in general, exist underground and is where the extraction of most drinkable water occurs. Aquifers need to be protected because over 80% of drinkable water is locked away in polar ice caps ( Sellami,et. Al 155-158). This means that human access to water is limited to small sources such as aquifers. Fracking causes breaching (the process of chemicals contaminating the aquifers) to occur when the pressure shifts plates beneath the subsurface making aquifers level with well injection Rivera 2 sites. This causes the chemicals to contaminate the clean drinking water. Additionally, during the mining process, the bedrock insulating the aquifer is also broken down: thus, resulting in the areas surrounding the aquifers to become more porous. Thus, fracking makes aquifers highly susceptible to groundwater leaching (Carrington). Some critics who stand firmly, state fracking should continue, and if groundwater leaching truly does happen then water treatment facilities will clean the contaminated water; however, this argument does not look at fracking in a holistic manner. As some scientists have already stated, some of the chemicals can contaminate aquifers, which cannot be filtered by water treatment facilities. Therefore, continuing to frack may lead to humans being forced to drink sewage water that has been treated, as well as, the possible dependence of desalination plants (Lin , et. al 233). Fracking not only has been looked at by environmentalists and scientists for causing groundwater contamination but has recently been linked to essentially causing man-made earthquakes (McGrath Goodman). Some researchers claim the recent spikes in tectonic disturbances in Oklahoma are the result of fracking. Despite warnings from scientific findings that fracking is the link to the massive increases of earthquakes in this state, law makers continue to halt the Environmental Protection Agency from trying to stop fracking. This limits the environmental impact in the region (Our Mission and What We Do). Studies suggest, that the reason fracking has caused these earthquakes is is a result due to the process of the bedrock being damaged. The methods to replace the rocks once all the resources are extracted is not adequate. When fracking is finished at one site, the liquid is pumped back in along with cement. This does not create ample support or elasticity. Hence, the creation of potential hazards. Furthermore, the fracking process is not delicate on the environment. The force exerted onto the crust have been linked to another possible cause for facilitating man-made seismic Rivera 3 activities. The force, created by fracking, essentially shocks the surface. As the force creates a higher frequency than the normal waves, passing through the upper-crust, the planet compensates by shifting tectonic plates (McGrath Goodman, 20-23). Natural gas extraction has been linked to environmental consequences, with scientific proof fracking should be banned. Because activists are ever-vigilant, officials acknowledged the scientific proof of the limestone formations; resulting in Florida districts being highly susceptible to sinkholes that fracking can enhance. Thus, activists in Florida have directly affected fracking laws (Alverez).The world cannot afford to allow fracking to continue despite increasing reliance on fossil fuels. With the new age of technology, there is a vast myriad of alternative renewable energy resources which can replace the need for fracking and drilling altogether. Such alternatives might include solar, hydraulic, geothermal, and wind energy. Therefore, the solution requires scientists and lawmakers to collaborate to eliminate fracking. However, citizens must recognize the priorities of lawmakers to turning a blind eye and allowing commercialism to outstrip environmentalism. The proper procedure for engagement is to simply find out what the state stance is on fracking. An individual might find this out by doing a quick search on the internet to see if fracking is allowed in that citizens state. Numerous states have already banned fracking. However, since bans are not universal: the next step is to contact the state local representative about their stance on fracking. If local authorities support fracking, take the initiative to start a petition to ban fracking if one is not available yet. This simplistic approach to the issue is effective, such as, in Florida. For instance, in Florida numerous postulation enticed leaders to try and pass legislation to prohibit fracking. Although fracking is a useful technique to obtain the increasingly scarce non-renewable resource: The process imposes environmental risks exceeding the benefits. States like Florida Rivera 4 have already taken the initiative to ban fracking, linking the mining to water contamination and earthquakes. Fracking is an industry producing billions of revenue annually, and transitioning out of it can take an exhaustive amount of time and effort. Citizens may get complacent through the process but should continue to provide scientific updates on the jeopardy to law officials until fracking can be universally prohibited. Everyone should do this by using social media and contact local leaders to start petitions and voice the natural threats to law makers. Rivera 5 Work Cited Alveraz, Lizette Battle Over Fracking Intensifies in New York Times. 23 Feb. 2016. Carrington, Companies Will Be Legally Required to Reveal Chemicals Used for Fracking; Infrastructure Bill Amendments on Ground Water Pollution and Accepted, but Labour Maintains Regulation Is Still  The Guardian. 14 Jan. 2015. Lin, Lu, et al. Innovative Use of Drinking Water Treatment Solids for Heavy Metals Removal from Desalination Concentrate: Synergistic Effect of Salts and Natural Organic  Chemical Engineering Research and Design, vol. 120, 01 Apr. 2017, pp. 231-239. MCGRATH GOODMAN, LEAH. Thunder in the  Newsweek Global, vol. 166, no. 15, 22 Apr. 2016, pp. 20-23. Pritchard, Joshua. Fracking:  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 24 Jan. 2017 Sellami, M.H., et al. Engineering Advance: Solar Distillation Using a Blackened Mixture of Portland Cement and Alluvial Sand as a Heat Storage  Desalination, vol. 394, 15 Sept. 2016, pp. 155-161. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.desal.2016.04.027. Mission and What We United States Enviromental Protection Agency. www.epa.gov/aboutepa/our-mission-and-what-we-do(web).29 Jan. 2017(London, England), 2015.