Morarji 1 Nabhanya K. Morarji Dr. Jarad Fennell English Composition II 27 April 2017 Project #3, Final Draft By definition, rape is a type of sexual assault usually involving sexual intercourse or other forms of sexual penetration carried out against a person without that consent. It is a vile, disgusting, and shameful crime against an individual. It is also the fourth most common crime committed against women in India. According to the National Crime Records 2013 annual report, 24,923 cases of rape were reported across India in 2012. Out of these, 24,470 rapes were committed by someone known to the victim. One of the reasons as to why this happens is because almost 70% of the Indian population lives in rural areas, which are not exposed to Western ideas or culture. This becomes a problem because women are repressed, and are treated like objects rather than human beings. Unfortunately, this problem is shifting towards the cities as well. People from the villages and rural areas come into the city to find work as taxi or bus drivers, construction workers, or even try to help around houses for money. People like them have not been exposed to city life and hence have a difficult time adjusting to women that are empowered. This is one of the main reasons why rape is not starting to become an increasing problem in Indian cities. This paper seeks to understand why rape is such a bad problem in India, and also to investigate ways to help women in rural areas and how to empower them. Apart from the reasons mentioned above, the lack of female police officers is a definite reason as to why rape is one of the major issues in India. Studies show that women are more likely to report sex crimes to female police officers as compared to their male counterparts. When women report sex crimes to male officers, more often than not, the Morarji 2 victims are demeaned, and made fun of while they are asked to give a recount of what happened. police refused to file a complaint. Instead, they asked my sister such vulgar details, it was as if she was being raped all over Charanjit Kaur, the sister of another recent rape victim who committed suicide, told The Washington Post. was no lady police officer, they were all men. My sister cried in front of them and kept asking, you still ask such questions if I were your Although there is an astonishing lack of women in the police force, there is also an equally saddening lack of interest from the police that work on the force. For instance, Delhi is home to one of the largest metropolitan police forces in the world, consisting approximately of 84,000 police officers. However, only one third of these officers take their jobs as seriously as required. The others strive to survive on bribes and do not care about actual crimes being committed. Furthermore, because of Indian culture being extremely orthodox, women are expected, in rural villages, to dress in traditional clothing such as sarees or salwars that cover most of their bodies. However, due to Western culture slowly seeping through to even the remotest of villages, women have gradually started to step out of their comfort zones in terms of clothing and now often opt for dresses or skirts, and sometimes even denim shorts. When a sex crime has been committed against them and on the rare occasion that they do report it, they are almost always asked what they were wearing at the time of the offense, and then blame the victim by saying that the crime happened because of their clothing and that they were probably asking for it. In a 1996 survey of judges in India, 68% of the respondents said that provocative clothing is indeed a fault and is understandable for a man to rape them. In response to the recent gang-rape incident, a legislator in Rajasthan suggested banning skirts as a uniform for girls in private schools, citing it as the reason for increased cases of sexual harassment. Situations and statistics like these make women feel ashamed of rape when it is not their fault whatsoever. Morarji 3 To make matters worse, marital rape is still legal in India. In other words, if a man rapes a woman that he is married to, then it is not illegal, simply because she is his wife. This again stems from Indian culture always instilling women with the belief that their sole purpose in their lifetime is to please their husbands and to treat them like a god. This results in women accepting domestic violence as a normal form of in their marriage. In Indian society, a lot of women are raised with the mentality that they should not stand up to their male peers. They should not talk back, or argue, or disrespect them. Instead, they should bare the pain of everything wrong that is being done to them just because they are women. Sadly, this is also why men tend to get away with sex crimes because women are told to keep quiet and not try to fight. In addition to this, for the few rapes that are reported, the conviction rate is only 26%. Rapists are let loose, resulting in them having the opportunity to commit the crime again. Living in a culture and society that is constantly dominated by men, women need to stay together, stand up for each other, and fight for one another. Parents need to raise their daughters with as much empowerment as they do with their sons. Instead of teaching daughters how to avoid getting raped, teach sons not to rape. In addition to this, an effort needs to be made to ensure that there are more female police officers on the field as well as in the stations. It is time to understand that women need to be treated as equals, as individuals that are as capable as men. As a society, it is also our duty to try our best to improve the quality of education in rural areas. Women need to and should be educated just as men are. This will help them understand that they are worth a lot more than just as sexual objects. Now is the time to change India into a country that women can finally feel safe in. Morarji 4 Works Cited Bhattacharya, Pallavi. Marital Rape in Herizons vol. 30, no. 3, Winter2017, pp. 21-23. EBSCOhost. 10, for Revenge by Order of India Village The London Evening Standard (London, England), 2014. Pathak, Harshad. the Binary: Rethinking Gender Neutrality in Indian Rape Asian Journal of Comparative Law, vol. 11, no. 2, Dec. 2016, p. 367.