Uhl 1 Maxwell Uhl Karen Hanson ENC 1102 April 16 2017 Buy GMO Genetically modified foods are everywhere. A recent count by the USDA finds that more than 90% of corn, soy, and cotton, by acre, is in fact genetically modified. (Recent Trends in GE Adoption) and labelling them in various ways could very well be the future of food. The benefits of GMO technologies are scientifically clear, and the drawbacks are a battle already being fought and gradually won. Public thought on should soon break away from the malady of its stigma, and should be seen, by the public, as nothing but an amazing product of modernity and bought because of that status. Current GMO crops, over their three-decade long usage in global food markets, have never been scientifically proven to cause harm to consumers. food labels promote their product as This and similar mind sets surrounding genetic modification has given the technology the stigma of being In reality, the foods we call and are already products of genetic selection, performed over centuries, sometimes millennia of crop breeding. In this way, the argument from breaks down completely. The only difference between what we used to do with our crops, and what we do now is that we just breeding plants and re-breeding what works. We are engineering our plants with highly specified traits, even traits which have consumer health benefits. A Ghent University publication read, studies show that these GMOs have positive impacts on human (Gmos with Health Benefits Have a Large Market Potential). These GMO crops are then Uhl 2 tested for their safety, for years, by a multitude of organizations. Even after they are approved for market, they are still tested, the same as all our food. The myth that had enough time to study its simply is no longer true. With GMOs safety addressed, one can directly see the affects some modified foods have on a vast array of human interests. More than a decade ago, there was created a new kind rice, dubbed Golden Rice. As stated in publication, a preexisting and common rice species was modified genetically to include a gene for manufacturing an excess of Vitamin A. (Gmos with Health Benefits Have a Large Market Potential). The article goes on to mention date, none of these GMOs are approved for cultivation, unlike GMOs with agronomic And so, we see the difference between the present and the future. In the future we very well could see the continued and greater use of golden rice, as well as an increase in the amount of health benefit GMOs on the market. However, it take the simple presence of such products to get these products to be the star they could be. It takes a lot more than one good story to make the entire notion of GMOs one to change the future, as already changed the present. Additionally, it takes another story, of eggplants and pesticides in Bangladesh, to show the true role that genetic modification can play in the interest of regular human beings. In Bangladesh, farmers would grow eggplant to sell to market, but they required the use of pesticides, which had bad effects on the health of the farmers. Later, after using a spreading a certain kind of eggplant, which has a natural pesticide within it, which is completely indigestible and harmless to humans, the area saw decrease in pesticide related illness, a decreased use of pesticides, and a healthy increase in crop yield. An article on the website, Cornell Alliance for Science, an organization connected to Cornell University, claimed technology not only Uhl 3 allows farmers to drastically reduce their use of insecticides by 80% or more, it also decreases yield loss due to pest Perspectives: Bt Brinjal in Bangladesh). Perhaps one more story of the life saving power of genetic engineering as it does not relate to food will make someone realize just how ubiquitous and beneficial they were, will be, and already have become. Some of us may know or be persons with the disease diabetes and know that sometimes, to prevent sudden blood sugar spikes, insulin must be taken through injection. Well, insulin has a history that one article sums up rather succinctly. An article by the American Diabetes Association posted on a blog on the website diabetesstopshere.org states, and isolated) Insulin from cattle and pigs was used for many years to treat diabetes and saved millions of lives, but it perfect, as it caused allergic reactions in many patients. The first genetically engineered, synthetic insulin was produced in 1978 using E. coli bacteria to produce the insulin. Eli Lilly went on in 1982 to sell the first commercially available biosynthetic human insulin under the brand name (The History of a Wonderful Thing We Call Insulin) Now, nearly all commercially available insulin is produced in exactly this manner, today. Large vats of bacteria genetically predisposed to producing inordinate amounts of insulin have made saving countless diabetics lives easier, cheaper, and safer than any time in history. Logically, it is certainly the case that even more drugs have been produced in exactly this fashion and to a similar effect. save lives because we have more control over genes than ever before. Do you want more stories like these to become true? You can help it. If a food nut, maybe rethink your intake of so called foods, and maybe look for responsibly sourced Uhl 4 GMOs, instead of with the same fair and ecologically friendly growing methods. If already a careless food buyer, who is indifferent about the fact that a majority of the grain foods you eat are already GMO, maybe start going out of your way to look for that GMO label, and eat buy it right up. If in the future, the markets see forms of crops which are heavily modified, not just to be good for farmers, but good for consumption, purchase with great prejudice. The kind of marketing that resulted in the popularity of foods can result in the popularity of a new kind of organic. Just because a crop is GMO, does not mean the rest of its growing needs to be done to poor agricultural standards. A genetically engineered crop with health benefits AND positive environmental impact could even be a stepping stone for a GMO revolution, bigger than the one we are in today. If there is to be a ositive GMO revolution, the only thing us buyers can do is keep buying, to help usher it in. With the purchase power of the masses, we can break down buzz words like and untrue words like If people like you and me start seeing GMOs as exciting, engaging, and nearly fantastical in their amazing possibility, we can bring about a new era in food security. We can buy our way to a healthier tomorrow and more fed world. We can, dare I say it, change the world! Uhl 5 Works cited Perspectives: Bt Brinjal in  Cornell Alliance for Science. N.p., 01 June 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Gmos with Health Benefits Have a Large Market  Space Daily, 2015. EBSCOhost The History of a Wonderful Thing We Call  Diabetes Stops Here. N.p., 29 Jan. 2016. Web. 25 Apr. 2017. Recent Trends in GE  USDA ERS - Recent Trends in GE Adoption. USDA, 3 Nov. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.