Langenbach 1 Blanche Langenbach Dennis ENC 1102 15 April 2017 Stem Cell Research Will Save Us from Disease Can you think of a loved one who has gone through or even passed from a devastating disease? Did they try everything possible, but it just not be enough? The same case was true for George T., a man who suffered from multiple sclerosis for 10 years, unable to walk without a walker, having severe speech and eyesight impairments, and unable to perform daily activities on his own. Even after consistently taking prescribed medication for years, he had no improvement, until he was treated with stem cells in El Salvador. After the surgical procedure, he was able to walk, talk, see, write, and even dance with his wife for the first time in three years (T, Angelina). Stem cells have not only been used to treat people with major disease, but have been researched to reduce the risk of rejection from organ transplants and, in the future, grow organs from stem cells alone (Johns Hopkins). Stem cell research looks for cures for these diseases and how to specialize organs for transplants by using unspecialized cells, such as embryonic cells, to be transformed into regenerative specialized cells, such as nerve, blood, and bone cells (Zawada). However, the research and use of embryonic cells, though pluripotent and able to transform into almost all types of cells, are not federally funded, due to the potential infringement on unborn rights. Yet, these embryos hold the key to regenerative medicine. Diseases like cancer, diabetes, and multiple sclerosis are tragic and we must work together to protect our children and grandchildren from their fatal consequences. Langenbach 2 In 2016 in the U.S. alone, 1.6 million people were diagnosed with cancer and over 500,000 people died from the disease (Cancer Statistics). Also in the U.S., over 130 million people live with a major disease that could be treated by stem cell therapies (Perry). If millions are suffering, why is there such restrictions to finding a cure? Stem cell research is arguably the most effective way to find cures for major disease. Scientists are so committed to this research because stem cells are able to regenerate from unspecialized cells found in embryos and adults to specialized cells that make up the different tissues and organs of the human body (Zawada). There are different types of unspecialized cells that effect the specialized function, including somatic (adult), induced pluripotent, embryonic and somatic nuclear transfer cells (Zawada). The most preferable, but highly debated are embryonic stem cells. Embryonic stem cells, an egg fertilized by a sperm, are totipotent, meaning that the single cell can divide repeatedly and donates cells to each specific body component (Zawada). Embryonic cells in humans must specialize to become the beating cells of the heart, pancreatic cells that produce insulin, skin cells that cover the body, and bone cells that support the body, among scores of other types of in order to grow from a fetus to a baby (Zawada). Stem cell research has made medical breakthroughs, such as turning skin cells into human bone, first done by the New York Stem Cell Foundation (Geronemus 1). New York Stem Cell Foundation also transformed the first embryonic stem cell with type 1 diabetes into the insulin-producing cells normally unfound in the pancreas of a patient with type 1 diabetes (Geronemus 1). Stem cell therapies have also been used to treat symptoms, decelerate, and reverse these degenerative diseases, just like George multiple sclerosis. Scientists are researching how to use stem cells to specialize organs for organ transplantation, which could reduce the risk of rejection. In the future, whole organs could be developed from stem cells, Langenbach 3 which would minimize the number of people dying while waiting on the waiting list. Currently, an estimated 118,000 people are waiting for an organ, and every 10 minutes, another person is added to that list. Additionally, every day, 22 people die waiting for an organ that only possibly could save their life (OPTN). With stem cell research looking to advance medicine and find cures for disease, millions of loved ones could be saved. If this is true, then why has the research of stem cells been slowed? The answer lies in the use of embryonic stems, which are the most effective type of stem cell. When embryonic stem cells are gathered, usually from in vitro fertilization. Human embryonic stem cells are produced by transferring cells from a preimplantation-stage embryo, usually extra, unused embryos from in vitro fertilization, into a plastic laboratory culture dish. However, the highly controversial side of stem cells is the use of embryonic stem cells, with the concern about the destruction of human embryos and the infringement of unborn rights. Even though 88% of the population agrees that using in vitro fertilization is either morally acceptable or not an issue, 10% less agree on the morality of embryonic stem cell research, as depicted in Figure 1 (Pew Research Center). Figure 1 Pew Research Center. Moral Assessments. Digital image. Small Cap Network. N.p., March & April 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Langenbach 4 This shows that majority of the population must be uninformed on the basis of embryonic stem cells. Embryonic stem cells are extracted by day 5, before a fetus has developed, so no lives are being killed. The potential for these lives to become a baby is slim to none, because these stem cells are extracted from extra frozen embryos that would be discarded if not used. How can we choose to waste these embryos instead of help find a cure or heal our loved ones? Regrettably, due to the misinformation, many Americans such as the National Right to Life Committee rally against stem cell research, which just slows its progress to finding cures for these deadly diseases. Even President Bush vetoed the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2005, even though it passed through both Congress and the Senate. This law would have amended the Public Health Service Act to provide federal funding for stem cell research that utilizes embryos obtained from in vitro fertilization or donated by individuals with consent (Castle). Fortunately, we can still save the lives of our children and grandchildren from fatal diseases by the support of stem cell research. First, because many are unaware of stem cells and are misinformed on their impact on the world, it is important to educate the public and eliminate the misinformation about the topic by implementing curriculum about stem cell research in biology classes in schools from secondary to tertiary. Also, utilizing social media to explain the importance of stem cell research in the effort for finding cures for disease can make a difference. Secondly, due to the lack of federal funding from embryonic stem cell research, progress is slow in finding cures for disease. By donating to stem cell research organizations, such as the New York Stem Cell Foundation or the National Stem Cell Foundation, we can begin to advance Langenbach 5 progress in regenerative medicine. Moreover, using social media to gain the support of donors, especially through social media challenges, such as the ALS Ice Bucket Challenge. Additionally, donating stem cells is a vital way to continue this research. You can support stem cell research at the University of South Florida by swabbing your cheeks and donating these blood stem cells to DKMS to help fight blood cancer (DKMS). With one person being diagnosed with a blood cancer every 3 minutes in the United States, this is a simple, yet effective, way of contributing to stem cell research (LaRussaA). With so many people suffering from cancer alone each year, and so many more with other types of incurable diseases, there is much hope in finding cures through stem cell research (Neal). Even so, misinformation and lack of support slow the progress of finding cures. It is so heartbreaking to go through or have a family member go through a disease like cancer or diabetes or but there are solutions to save our future children. Embryonic stem cells are totipotent unspecialized cells that can transform into any specific cell of the body, like nerve or bone, and can be used in regenerative medicine in researching for cures and treatments of diseases. There is a chance that these embryos could have been children, if not thrown away by in vitro fertilization clinics, but when we analyze that future generations are at risk of dying from these diseases, how can we turn our backs to this potential cure? When we go through heartbreaking experiences of grandparents with and family and friends passing from cancer, how can we refuse to prevent this from happening to our children and grandchildren? You have the world in your hands, but will you choose to save it? Langenbach 6 Works Cited Cancer  National Cancer Institute. N.p., 22 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Castle, Michael. H.R.810 - 109th Congress (2005-2006): Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of  Congress.gov. N.p., 19 July 2006. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. DKMS. ARE YOU READY TO  What is DKMS. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. LaRussaA. Facts and  LaRussaA. N.p., 03 Mar. 2015. Web. 29 Apr. 2017. Neal, Meghan. World Cancer Day: 340,000 Cases Of Cancer A Year In The U.S. Could Be  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 04 Feb. 2011. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Organ Procurement and Transplantation  OPTN: Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network - OPTN. N.p., 13 Apr. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Perry, Daniel, Coalition for Urgent Research, and Alliance for Aging Research. Voices: The Powerful Sound in the Stem Cell  Science. American Association for the Advancement of Science, 25 Feb. 2000. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Pew Research Center. Moral Assessments. Digital image. Small Cap Network. N.p., March & April 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Stem Cells Stop Donor Organ  Johns Hopkins Medicine. N.p., 11 Oct. 2011. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. T, Angelina. St. George Defeats the MS  Stem Cell Success Stories - RSCI. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Zawada, W. Michael, PhD, and Karen E., PhD Kalumuck. Stem  Salem Press Encyclopedia Of Science (2016): Research Starters. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.