McGovern 1 Matthew McGovern Professor Spencer Bennington English 1102 29 April 2017 in your food? The First GE (Genetically Engineered) organism was engineered in 1973 by Herbert Boyer and Stanley Cohen. two scientists developed a method to very specifically cut out a gene from one organism and paste it into (Rangel). The NFU (National Farmers union has stated that their goal is advocate for the economic and social wellbeing, and quality of life of family farmers, ranchers, fisherman, and consumers and their communities through education, cooperation, and legislation. NFU advocates sustainable production of food, fiber, feed, and (NFU). The NFU believes that GMOs should be labelled in a way that is not confusing to the general public. GMOs been around long enough to know the full extent of their effects so as a matter of precaution people should have the right to choose whether or not they want GMO food or if they do not. By choosing brands that choose to label their foods as GMO free and allow to educate the customers on exactly what is being altered in their foods as a way to show them if it is not really harmful. It is still possible that GMOs could be dangerous as they have not been in circulation long enough for us not to see the long-term effects of using and consuming them. For example, for many years people know that cigarettes were unhealthy, but eventually it was discovered that it could kill you. So why is it that many people make the choice to not opt in to McGovern 2 something that needs more research into it. Not only could they be harmful to your health there have been some adverse side effects on the environment from their use. When GMOs are grown, they can still reproduce, this can cause some unwanted effects as is also ample evidence that some GMOs have negative environmental impacts, such as the creation of (Rangel). We still need time to study and do research on GMOs as we are still fairly early on in the lifecycle of using GMOs. We have accidentally created many weeds that are resistant to the pesticide that we are trying to make our actual plants resistant to. This brings up other things such as the fact that could it be harmful to us. While GMO labelling could be helpful in many ways, without proper education, it could make the market less competitive. There are already arguments on whether or not GMO labelling causes products to be less competitive in the market. For example, 1997, a time of growing opposition to GMOs in Europe, the E.U. began to require them. By 1999, to avoid labels that might drive customers away, most major European retailers had removed genetically modified ingredients from products bearing their (Scientific American) The labelling of GMOs has made GMOs less competitive in the European market and has caused farmers that use GMOs to have less of a livelihood. Would the same happen if it were labelled in a way that could deceive consumers? Since most people hear the work GMOs and automatically think bad, it has created a negative connotation around it. GMOs should be labelled but without a clear and educational way to keep the public educated on GMOs, the farmers producing GM crops could lose their livelihood. So try to educate yourself on GMOs and push the idea of further research into GM crops by your local government. McGovern 3 Bibliography Food and Drug Administration. Guidance for Industry: Voluntary Labeling Indicating Whether Foods Have or Have Not Been Derived from Genetically Engineered FDA. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 24 Nov. 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017 Fox, Maggie. No Need to Label GMO Plants, FDA  NBCNews.com. NBCUniversal News Group, 23 Nov. 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://www.nbcnews.com/health/health-news/theres-no-need-label-gmo-plants-fda-says- n468301>. for GMO Foods Are a Bad Scientific American, April 2017. <http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/labels-for-gmo-foods-are-a-bad-idea/> Evolution of Genetics Learning Center, University of Utah, April 2013. <http://learn.genetics.utah.edu/content/selection/corn/> Rangel, Gabriel. From Corgis to Corn: A Brief Look at the Long History of GMO  (n.d.): n. pag. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://sitn.hms.harvard.edu/flash/2015/from-corgis- to-corn-a-brief-look-at-the-long-history-of-gmo-technology/>. NFU. About  National Farmers Union. NFU, 05 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <https://nfu.org/about/>.