D e m e l i e n 1 Feline Demelien 3 May 2017 ENC 1102 Ms. Hannah Lay End second smoke among kids always get the worst end of a is a quote used by a French organization to promote the mission to end second hand smoke among kids. Second hand smoke among kids is such a huge issue because of the harmful effects. It is not just because of advertisements, being drawn to being cool or wanting to be independent that causes smoking in the first place, it is the parents that lead the start of smoking. A lot of parents do not realize that it is possible that their influence could cause their kids to begin smoking by their second-hand smoke. It is the parents that have their kids indirectly participate in their smoking sessions or just plainly smoke in front of their kids that begin the trend of smoking that continue this issue of secondhand smoke. All in all, a never-ending cycle and it all begins at home. To get parents involved it is imperative to take the smoking outside, donate to organizations such as the Americans for Nonsmokers rights that advocates for a smoke free environment and to just stop smoking in general. Essentially, second hand smoke is a mixture of the smoke exhaled from the user and the smoke from the butt end of the cigarette itself. The specific name for what was described in the previous statement is mainstream smoking and side stream smoking. Side stream smoking is extremely dangerous mainly because of what is contained in the smoke released. In the smoke released from the butt end of a cigarette, cigar, etc., contains high concentrations of D e m e l i e n 2 causing agents (carcinogens) and is more toxic than mainstream (American Cancer Society). When there are nonsmokers around a user and they are exposed to the second-hand smoke it is then called involuntary smoking or passively smoking. The same way a user breaths in nicotine and the toxic chemicals into their body is the same way a non-user does as well. As stated on the CDC regarding second-hand smoke, is no risk-free level of secondhand smoke exposure; even brief exposure can be harmful to (CDC). Second hand smoke is in fact damaging in many ways. To begin with, that smoke inhaled affects the heart and the blood vessels. By inhaling smoke there is an increase of heart attacks and strokes in not only just the user but the non-smoker as well. Secondhand smoke as well contains more than 7,000 chemicals and more than a hundred of those as mentioned before are extremely toxic and about 70 of those chemicals can cause cancer (CDC). Aforementioned, smoking can begin at home, which begins a trend of never ending smoking habits. Almost half of the United States adolescents attempt to smoke by the time they reach their freshman year of high school. In addition to that, approximately 90% of adults began smoking by the time they turn 18 or even before that. A study conducted as mentioned in article on the University of Washington page describes how, who had parents who smoked around them are two times as likely to begin smoking cigarettes daily between the ages of 13 and 21 than were children whose parents use (University of Washington News). It goes on by saying that parental attitudes and behaviors on the issue of smoking is the key factor of delaying the onset of daily smoking. Activities including having the parent sending their child to get their pack of cigarettes, just plain out smoking in front of their kids or having their kids light their cigarette are factors in what causes children to smoke in the first place. What D e m e l i e n 3 is also astonishing is that parents do not realize that they are the ones that indirectly cause their children to smoke in the future. By the parents smoking around their kids they are making their kids susceptible to a plethora of diseases. It is the young kids in fact that are most affected by second hand smoke and the ones who are unable to avoid at all costs. Children who are surrounded by smoke attains a higher chance in triggering asthma attacks or making asthma symptoms worse, getting sick more often, having more lung infections, and are likely to get respiratory infections and ear infections. To understand the gravity of this situation, approximately 73.8 million of kids make up the U. S population and about one in every five kids die because of second hand smoke (Americans for Nonsmokers Rights). Of course, a lot of children die because of second hand smoke mainly because it is kids who are still growing and development and by being around smoke it stunts that development which of course increases the amount of exposure to diseases. As mentioned previously secondhand smoke in children causes a lot of respiratory health issues, in addition to those health issues, second hand smoke is known to cause low birth rate and Sudden Infant Death syndrome, asthma, bronchitis, and pneumonia (Americans for Nonsmokers Rights). Second hand smoke is also known to impair cognitive growth. It is the smoke that aids in lack of oxygen in the brain which then leads to impairment in the brain. Since the child ability to learn is impaired it makes it difficult for a child to learn. It is approximated that more than 21.9 million of children are at risk of reading deficits because of the exposure to secondhand smoke (Americans for Nonsmokers Rights). Once a child becomes an adult, that child now adult could deal with some serious repercussions because of dealing with second hand smoke as child. For one, since that child now adult has been around second hand smoke the now adult has decreased lung function. This adult D e m e l i e n 4 now must continue with the respiratory issues they dealt with when they were a child. Furthermore, this increased exposure raises the risk of metabolic syndrome, which is basically increases the risk of heart disease, strokes, type II diabetes and excessive belly fat going into the adult age. For women, who grew around second hand smoke, once entering adulthood they are 68% greater of having a difficult time conceiving and is more likely to suffer more miscarriages (Americans for Nonsmokers Rights). As parents, there is a lot that could be done to prevent such issues from occurring. For one it would be great to establish a good foundation in terms of communication with the kids in the household (Kids Health). In addition, attempt to not lecture or when you giving advice to your kids to make it become a sermon or else your child will not appreciate it. Furthermore, touch bases on the positives of not smoking such as not having to deal with an addiction. Parents who do smoke admit that you have made a mistake and that if you had a chance to start over, you would or try to quit. It is great to have children to understand what is at stake if they were to begin smoking. If you cannot do what was mentioned in the previous statement, try not to get your children involved in your habits. As mentioned previously, smoking around children increases their chances of gaining a plethora of diseases such as respiratory infections. Moreover, try not to have you child gather you pack of cigarettes or have them light your cigarette for you. Having your child gather your smoking tools can influence their thoughts on smoking. It is possible that children would see smoking as a positive rather than a negative, since they see their parents doing it. Parents should set a positive example for their kids rather than a negative example. In addition, to some of the suggestions previously mentioned, parents could donate to organizations such as the Americans for Nonsmokers Rights (ANR). The ANR advocates for a smoke free environment for the general population, most importantly children. By having an D e m e l i e n 5 organization such as the ANR being a strong advocate for a smoke free environment there is a likely chance that in the future, secondhand smoke may not be an issue anymore. By attempting to do some of the suggestions, there is a chance you can cut down on the amount of issues your child might have in the future. You could cut down the amount of respiratory, cognitive, and behavioral issues your child may gain just from you smoking around them. You also prevent your child from themselves smoking in the future or them dealing with the repercussions of secondhand smoke once they enter adulthood. By doing just a few small things, you could decrease the number of children who die because of smoking. As parents, it is imperative to become engaged in this mission to end second hand smoke among kids. It is now up to the engaged parent to do the right thing and save the future of kids from dying because of secondhand smoke. D e m e l i e n 6 Works Cited American Cancer Society. What is second hand  13 November 2015. https://www.cancer.org/cancer/cancer-causes/tobacco-and-cancer/secondhand- smoke.html. 2017. Americans for Nonsmokers Rights. Health Effects of Secondhand Smoke On Chiildren  September 2009. http://no-smoke.org/document.php?id=212. 2017. CDC. Secondhand Smoke (SHS)  21 February 2017. s/. 2017. Kids Health. Kids and  June 2016. http://kidshealth.org/en/parents/smoking.html. 2017. University of Washington News. Children whose parents smoked are twice as likely to begin smoking between ages 13 and 21 as offspring of  28 September 2005. http://www.washington.edu/news/2005/09/28/children-whose-parents-smoked-are-twice- as-likely-to-begin-smoking-between-ages-13-and-21-as-offspring-of-nonsmokers/. 2017.