Lopez 1 Marcos Lopez Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.12 3 May 2017 Hillsborough School Board and Gun Control The Hillsborough County Public School Board, according to its page, responsible for the organization and control of the public schools and is empowered to determine the policies necessary for the effective operation and the general improvement of the school (Hillsborough County Public Schools). The ultimate goal is to improve the school system, and that includes ensuring the safety of the students in Hillsborough county. With this in mind, the Hillsborough County Public School Board should work to implement a campus carry policy on all of its schools in order to immediately and effectively combat the increased gun violence on school campuses. Not only will this improve the schools of the county, but it will also help improve the public image by showing the public that the Board really does care about the safety of its students. Although there might be some backlash from those who strongly oppose campus carry policies, they will be taken aback by the positive impact such a beneficial policy will create. Campus carry is an important policy that will help reduce violent attacks on school campuses. Gary Kleck, Tomislav Kovandzic, and Jon Bellows, in Gun Control Reduce Violent explain that increased gun control not only has little to no impact on violent crime, but in some circumstances can be a factor that increases violent crime rates (503). Examples of some of these negative impacts of gun control are that when access to guns is Lopez 2 decreased, violent crimes committed with other weapons, like knives and blunt objects become more common. Statistics and studies consistently show that increased gun control does not reduce violent crime rates (Cook 77). By encouraging campus carry in Hillsborough county schools, the Board could play a vital role in protecting students in Hillsborough county schools from the atrocities we see today, such as attacks in Sandy Hook. By ensuring that every campus in the county is well equipped to swiftly and effectively combat violence against its students, the Board will not only protect students, but will also gain a great amount of positive public image. Not only should the school board allow campus carry for handguns and basic self defense firearm, but it should also allow the carrying of assault weapons by security guards and police officers to further ensure the safety. Christopher Koper and Jeffrey Roth, in Impact of the 1994 Federal Assault Weapon Ban on Gun Violence Outcomes: An Assessment of Multiple Outcome Measures and Some Lessons for Policy explain that increased restrictions on assault weapons has almost no effect on reducing violent crime, as criminals who do not have access to assault weapons find alternatives such as handguns (45). Furthermore, Douglas Murray, in Gun Control Laws and Firearm also confirms the claim that gun control laws that restrict access to handguns have no positive effect on reducing violent crime. Like Koper and Roth explained, stricter gun control laws do not reduce violent crime, but rather force criminals to commit violent crime on more vulnerable victims with different instruments of violence (60). The Hillsborough County Public School Board would benefit from taking a stand to encourage campus carry because it would play a big part in protecting people on county campuses. Campus carry would help ensure that students, teachers, administrators, parents, and Lopez 3 other employees are able to defend themselves against any aggressor that seeks to cause harm to anyone in the school community. The safety of the school communities should always be the first and foremost priority of those charged to manage and oversee such communities. The Board should do everything in its power to protect the school communities in the county, and a firm campus carry policy, a policy that allows legal owners of guns to have guns on school premises, would be a fantastic first step in keeping all people in the community safe. Furthermore, a campus carry policy would create much publicity for the school Board, which would improve its image in the eye of the public. It would do a lot of good for the image to have local and national news agencies reporting on such a revolutionary policy that contradicts what the rest of the country feels is the right way to handle guns on school campuses. Because guns are such a controversial topic in our country today, this could very well gain Hillsborough County Schools some negative press, but the positive improvements made by a campus would be worth the short lived criticism. The reality is that the Board, along with praise, would also receive some pretty harsh criticism from those who oppose guns on school campuses. Regardless of criticism, the Board should always keep in mind what is best for its students, rather than focusing solely on public image. Even with the criticism the Board would get, after the concrete benefits of campus carry in Hillsborough County Schools become apparent, critics will have a hard time opposing the policy. Although the Board would definitely get some criticism, many studies and statistics support the policy that they would implement. The Hillsborough County School Board would implement this crucial campus carry policy in three simple steps. Firstly, it would have to, as a unified entity, declare that it supports the implementation of a campus carry policy. Once it did this, it would have to gain public Lopez 4 support by campaigning and raising awareness of the positive impact that a campus carry policy would have on improving the safety of school communities in Hillsborough County. Lastly, the third step would be for the Board to propose a bill for voters to decide on in the voting booth. This bill would allow the carrying of firearms on campus by authorized personnel such as teachers, administrators, security guards, and perhaps even parents. This measure would ensure the safety of the school communities, and would also include the permission of police officers and security officers to carry assault weapons on school campuses to combat active aggressors as quickly as possible. In conclusion, the Hillsborough County Public School Board should work to implement a campus carry policy that protects and ensures the safety of school communities. This campus carry policy would be a crucial first step in making sure that everyone in school communities, including students, teachers, administrators, and parents, are safe from any aggressors that seek to harm any members of the school communities in Hillsborough county. The Board would benefit by ensuring the safety of the school communities it is entrusted with. The campus carry policy would be the first real step in doing its part to prevent violent attacks on campus. Furthermore, the Board would benefit from the increased amount of publicity that would give credence to the campus carry policy. Many would realize that studies and statistics support the claim that gun control does no good in reducing violent crime (Zimring 732). The school Board should do this as soon as possible. It is necessary for the Board to implement a campus carry policy to ensure that violent aggressors on school campuses are swiftly and quickly neutralized in order to protect the entire school communities. Lopez 5 Works Cited Bellows, Jon, Gary Kleck, and Tomislav Kovandzic. Gun Control Reduce Violent Justice vol. 41, no. 4, 2013, pp. 489-513. 10.1177/0734016816670457. Accessed 21 April 2017. Cook, Philip J. Effect of Gun Availability on Violent Crime Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social vol. 455, 1981, pp. Hillsborough County Public Schools. Board, 2017, Accessed 23 April 2017. Koper, Christopher S., and Jeffrey A. Roth. Impact of the 1994 Federal Assault Weapon Ban on Gun Violence Outcomes: An Assessment of Multiple Outcome Measures and Some Lessons for Policy of Quantitative vol. 17, no. 1, 2001, pp. Accessed 21 April 2017. Murray, Douglas R. Gun Control Laws and Firearm vol. 23, no. 1, 1975, pp. Zimring, Frank. Gun Control Likely to Reduce Violent University of Chicago Law vol. 35, no. 4, 1968, pp. Lopez 6