Gardner 1 Ryan Gardner ENC1102 Adam Carter 17 April 2017 What to Do About the Death Penalty As more states begin to outlaw the death penalty, the topic has become increasingly controversial. Many people believe that the faults in the death penalty outweigh the benefits. The errors in the legal system, as well as the faults and costs of the death penalty, make it too dangerous and wasteful for citizens of this country. Many innocent people have been falsely convicted and sentenced to life sentences, and unfortunately some innocent people have been executed as well. The death penalty has many errors and issues, one of the largest issues is that it costs three times as much as a regular life sentence. This is money that we spend and money that could help fund other programs (Brook-1). Currently nineteen states have abolished the death penalty and it seems that more could potentially abolish it in the next couple years as well. The death penalty is extremely dangerous and expensive. It is a waste of our tax money and is flawed and effecting innocent people. A temporary ban on the death penalty would help the legal system correct errors and biases and make the death penalty enacted safer and quicker. This would help lower costs and protect innocent people. We can help get this temporary ban by rallying together and protesting the death penalty, we can also our local representative and state our issues. Almost five percent of prisoners in the U.S are innocent, that is over one hundred thousand people (Rohrlich-1). How is it possible for so many people to be convicted falsely? Gardner 2 Well, there are a number of ways for these errors to occur. Some people are coerced into false confessions and some are just plainly convicted falsely. Coercion is essentially being pressured into confessing because of fear. The story of fourteen-year-old Raymond Santana is an example of coercion. Santana was arrested by police for being potentially involved in a beating. He was held in a cell with no lawyer, and was screamed at by police officers until a detective came into the room. The detective tricked him into lying about being involved in the crime by saying Santana could help them find who is guilty (Rohrlich-1). The death penalty is also extremely biased and unfair. On average you are more likely to be given the death penalty if you are a minority, especially if the victim was white (Brook-1). The death penalty is also very dependent on your financial status as well. The lower class, and really those who just cannot afford good attorneys are far more likely to face execution (American Civil Liberties Union-1). The death penalty is flat out biased, and unless you are a wealthy, white man, it is not in your favor. The legal system is extremely messed up, something that is meant to help and uphold justice, but there are too many errors and biases in it currently for it to do its job. The risk of being falsely convicted and arrested affects everyone, but the death penalty impacts us all a lot more than just that. You may not think that it could happen to you, but innocent people have been convicted and executed. Since 1973, one hundred and forty-four prisoners on death row have been found innocent, and it is believed that ten innocent people have been put to death (Brook-1). These people have had years of their lives wasted, and have had their names tarnished even though they were innocent. It would be immoral if we allowed this to continue without complaint. But we just ignore this, we brush it aside saying could never happen to This is simply false. The University of South Florida is about fifty Gardner 3 thousand students, that is less than half of the total number of innocent people in jail! We pretend that our legal system is okay, because any one of us could be put in jail or killed for no reason. Apart from the risk of innocent lives, the death penalty is extremely and unnecessarily expensive. The death penalty is sometimes ten times more expensive than non-death penalty cases, it can cost the state millions of dollars. This is where it affects us. To pay for the death penalty states are forced to increase our taxes and cut the budgets of other services like the police and highway departments (EJUSA.org-1). It fair for our tax money to go to something as unnecessary and flawed as the death penalty. The money would be much better spent somewhere else, somewhere that could help us, not harm us. The money we are forced to spend on the death penalty should go towards education and scholarships, or something more beneficial in the legal system like victim support. Cutting out the death penalty will save us money and will save innocent lives. You may not see it every day, but the death penalty affects us all. Maybe we do anything by ourselves, but together we can help raise awareness and help get the death penalty abolished in our state. Many people are unaware of the issues about the death penalty, or choose to ignore the innocent because they think the death penalty does good. We can help raise awareness and change opinions about this, the death penalty should be a conversation people are having. The best way for to spread this knowledge is attending a rally May tenth. At this rally we will inform everyone who listens that we will not support the error-filled death penalty that is ruining lives and wasting our money. Although we ourselves cannot abolish the death penalty, if enough of us are opposed and actively protesting, we can all call our local representative and tell him that we have no interest in the death penalty. You can find and contact your local Gardner 4 representative using this link. Together we can spread this information to the community and to our representatives. The death penalty is a waste of our money and is dangerous to us. There are too many cons for it to be justified and it cuts budgets to places that help and impact our lives. Is this money worth it considering the errors that come with it? One hundred and forty-four prisoners have been released after being put on death row (Brook-1). These people have had years wasted over nothing. There is no justification for this, if we spend our money on something this serious, there should be no racial biases and little to no errors. Together we can raise awareness and protest the death penalty. By attending the rally and protesting on May tenth, you will help spread information which could help get the governor to abolish the death penalty in Florida. We can be the twentieth state to end the death penalty and thus lower our taxes, fund more programs and most importantly, prevent the loss of lives. Gardner 5 Work Cited Brook, Dan. Kill the Death Penalty: 10 Arguments Against Capital  Common Dreams. N.p., 15 July 2014. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. https://www.commondreams.org/views/2014/07/15/kill-death-penalty-10-arguments- against-capital-punishment Rohrlich, Justin. Why Are There Up to 120,000 Innocent People in US  VICE News. N.p., 10 Nov. 2014. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. https://news.vice.com/article/why-are-there-up-to-120000-innocent-people-in-us-prisons The Case Against the Death  American Civil Liberties Union. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. https://www.aclu.org/other/case-against-death-penalty and  Equal Justice USA. N.p., 28 Jan. 2016. Web. 18 Apr. 2017 http://ejusa.org/learn/cost/