Medina 1 Tomas Medina Bennington Composition 2 30 April, 2017 Blood Tech For many years, the Democratic Republic of the Congo has been faced with the bloodiest conflict in the world. One of the driving factors behind this conflict is the abundance of valuable minerals in the region. Many armed groups enslave innocent civilians to work in these mines, then use the profits from the sale of their minerals to perpetuate the violence (Enough). Worse still, these conflict minerals could be in your smart phone or jewelry! Thankfully, action has been taken. In 2010, the Dodd-Frank act, which included many regulatory provisions for banks and businesses, was enacted. Section 1502 of the act requires that corporations fully disclose the origin of any imported gold, tin, tungsten or tantalum- the four major conflict minerals (Enough). However, in February of this year, Donald Trump announced that he would suspend many parts of Dodd-Frank, including section 1502(Feldstein). Supporters of this executive action argue that the regulations only create costly, ineffective, and unnecessary paperwork (Wolfe). 1502 has had an apparent effect, however, and companies that spearheaded the conflict-free movement stand by it, even vowing to maintain their due diligence after the written been rescinded. Put simply, suspending section 1502 of Dodd-Frank would reduce consumer confidence and undermine the efforts of activists promoting peace and order in the Congo region. Therefore, people must petition to retain the law and opt for a conflict-free lifestyle. Medina 2 While eliminating this law might not dissuade companies from maintaining a de facto conflict- free status, it will undermine the United advocacy for peace and promotion of transparency. It was thanks to such advocacy from the Enough project that this law was able to come into fruition. Today, many organizations local to the Congo region favor section 1502(Feldstein). If this law is repealed it would set a dangerous precedent across the globe and might eventually result in the decline of international support for supply chain responsibility. Despite these admonitions, Dodd-Frank Section 1502 still has its opponents. One criticism of the law is that it is ineffective. Forbes contributor Tim Worstall, who once nominated section 1502 as the Law of the states that all it does is politely request companies to say whether their suppliers fund conflict, with no further proof required (Worstall). This is a gross oversimplification, however. The law also requires disclosure on due diligence measures taken to ensure the condition of suppliers, which includes auditing. Furthermore, it requires consultation with other government agencies such as the Government Accountability Office and the Commerce Department (Dodd-Frank 1502). Additionally, since the law was passed, 79 percent of all mines in the Congo are now conflict-free (Feldstein). Clearly, there is an effect. Now there is only the question of cost. Critics also say the law is costly. The SEC once estimated that it would cost $4 billion to implement section 1502, and $200 million in the years afterward (Worstall). However, the actual cost of implementation was actually about 80% lower than they estimated (Feldstein). Therefore, rescinding the act would not save corporations money. In fact, it may reduce consumer confidence and result in losses. Our government is only as powerful as the people it governs. However, since the motion to rescind Dodd-Frank was an executive order, it places a serious handicap on the power. Had this been an act of Congress, people could simply petition with their representatives and have their word Medina 3 supported by the majority. With an executive order, it quite as simple, but it is doable. Congress would have to propose a law that would modify, revoke, or supersede the order. Of course, if the president disagrees with this, a veto is to be expected. A 2/3 majority vote in both the Senate and the House of Representatives is needed to override this veto (Kessler). Until then, all we can do is peaceably protest and advocate transparency. Whenever buying electronics or jewelry, request verification that the manufacturing materials were responsibly sourced. If there is no such verification, then demand that the company start documenting their due diligence. If that work, then play the favorite trump card: an organized boycott. Several elements of Dodd-Frank need to reformed or abolished altogether. However, unless someone can concoct a more viable replacement, 1502 should not be one of them. The act works and it is not as costly as critics say it is. Without this section, consumer confidence would drop and global support for responsible sourcing could disappear. Medina 4 Work Cited Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Pub. L. 111-203. 124 Stat. 1376-2223. 21 July. 2010. Feldstein, Steve, and Sasha Lezhnev. Suspension of Conflict Minerals Rule Would Be a Big U.S. News, 24 Feb. 2017. Kessler, Sarah. There Are Three Ways to Revoke a US Executive  Quartz. Quartz, 31 Jan. 2017. Our Campaigns &  Enough. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://www.enoughproject.org/about/campaigns-initiatives>. Wolfe, Lauren. Dodd Frank is Failing Foreign Policy, 2 Feb. 2015. Worstall, Tim. Executive Order to Repeal the Worst Law of the Forbes, 9 Feb. 2017