Fournier 1 Ian Fournier Bennington English Composition II 4/30/2017 College Athletes Should Be Paid There has been a big problem in college sports pertaining to college athletes and if they should get paid or not. A big advocate for college athletes getting paid is the NCPA, which is the National Collegiate Players Association, the NCPA helps with making sure that college athletes are being treated fairly while playing for their college. NCAA has rules and regulations that prevent college athletes from getting paid, which the NCPA try to fight against so the college athletes will be treated fairly from colleges the college athletes play for to the NCAA who restrict college athletes in a lot of ways being not allowing college athletes to get paid. The NCAA is the Nation Collegiate Athletic Association, they regulate college athletes for the colleges, they generate almost billion dollars from the sport games that the college athletes play in. College athletes should get paid because they are playing a sport for the school that they attend and the school and the NCAA get all the benefits from the college athletes playing the sport they play. Another reason why the college athletes should get paid since they are playing in the sport games they are making the billions of dollars for the NCAA and the colleges they play for. A way to support the NCPA and the college athletes is to donate to the NCPA who supports the college athletes by fighting for the college rights and that the college athletes are treated fairly by the NCAA and schools they play through the legal system. The NCPA is doing a lot when it comes to helping college athletes when it comes to being treated right by the colleges they play for and the NCAA. The NCPA does a lot for the college athletes they try to raise the scholarship amount, which the NCAA admits that a full scholarship does not cover basic necessities for the college athlete, but the NCAA refuses to change its rules to allow colleges to give more scholarship money to the college athletes. The NCPA has plan to increase the small percentage of scholarship money to the college athlete by using a small percentage of the TV revenues that can assist colleges in providing better scholarships that can equal each cost of attendance which will help increase the scholarship money that the college athletes receive to cover those basic necessities. The NCPA also helps The NCPA helps with the college athletes by sponsoring bills that will get passed to help college athletes get the right amount of treatment injuries while playing college sports. (www.sacbee.com). There is a statement from two parents that had a son that passed away that was a college athlete at the University of South California who died from a result of brain trauma suffered during his athletic career paying for the college this is what the parents said about how they felt about the situations a parent, my wife and I can only wonder how life would have turned out if there had been guidelines, an independent watchdog, being a guardian angel, Fournier 2 for him and looking over his shoulder. Just maybe we would be having dinner with him and his family tonight. California has the opportunity to protect our  (www.sacbee.com). Maybe if the NCAA offered more money to college athletes to help medical costs after college from an injury that was caused from playing for the college he might have got the care he needed to stay alive. The NCPA has had a lot of reforms accomplished when it comes to helping college athletes like a lawsuit that made millions of dollars that directly benefited the college athlete. The NCPA does a lot for colleges athletes why becoming a member and or donating to the association will help with accomplishing more reforms or sponsoring more bills that will help the college athletes. College athletes should get paid because the NCAA and colleges make billions of dollars off the college athletes and what they do every time they are part of a college sports game. The NCAA and colleges get a lot of money from TV deals, ticket sales, and merchandise like jerseys that might even have the college athletes name on it. Since the college athletes are in the sports that make the NCAA and the college a lot of money they should get paid, college athletes wake up early almost every day just to practice for the team and basically have no free time throughout the day to themselves. Being a college athlete is basically a job and the college athlete is working for the college and making the colleges and the NCAA tons of money. The college that makes the most off of college athletics and that is Texas A&M which top the list at 192.6 million dollars (Gaines, 2016). With colleges making this much money annually from college athletics from the TV deals they for each game, the ticket sales for each game, and merchandise revenue they make off of the college sports teams and athletes. The NCPA wants a piece of the money because the college athletes are providing the entertainment that yields all the revenue and the NCPA wants some of the money to help increase scholarships. The NCAA and colleges should use the money they get from the television deals, the memorabilia sold, and tickets sales to find a way to appease the NCPA and the college athlete, because it is not fair to the college athletes who get any revenue from selling memorabilia or autographs, when the NCAA and the colleges receive millions of dollars when it comes to the television deals, selling memorabilia, and ticket sells. With all the money that the colleges and the NCAA make from the entertainment of college sports they have enough money to spare to give to college athletes for some payment from increasing the scholarship given to college athletes or giving them a check for every game they play in. College athletes do a lot for the colleges and the NCAA so the colleges and the NCAA can make the billions of dollars they get in revenue from the TV deals, merchandise sales, and ticket sales. There was study at the Drexel University Department of Sport Management and the NCPA did a joint study scandals created by an unethical NCAA restrictions on college athletes and there are professional athletes who have gone through the hardships of being a college athlete. In the study, it is found the college athletes who live off campus are living below the poverty line (www.ncpanow.org/research). They examined football and basketball teams that are part of the FBS which is the Football Bowl Subdivision colleges, the study compares the college educational related expenses that are associated with the full scholarship and then compares it to the room and board portion of scholarship to the federal poverty line. From the study they think that there should be federal intervention to help bring a new model of the rule of Fournier 3 amateurism, that is enforced by the NCAA that college athletes should not be paid or accept money from any type of way of accepting money, with the new model for amateurism for college sports should emphasize education, minimize violations, and allows players to seek commercial opportunities. Some professional and formal professional athletes know what college athletes have to go through while they play for their college, like Kareem Abdul-Jabber who played professional basketball and college basketball for UCLA. Kareem Abdul-Jabber said when he was in college he spent hours every day practicing, learning plays, and traveling around the country to play games, and he said despite all the millions of dollars the team generated for the college, both in cash and with recruiting students to attend the university he was always too broke to do much but study, practice, and play (Abdul-Jabber, 2014). The study helps shows some reasons why college athletes should get paid and professional athletes and formal athletes had to go through the same things the current college athletes are going through right now. With people donating to the NCPA and coming a member of the NCPA will help get the word out to the public on how the college athletes get treated poorly and help with getting bills passed and with reform that helps support college athletes. With donating to the NCPA it will help them get things passed like getting more money for the scholarships for the college athletes. With the NCAA and the colleges making so much money from the TV deals, merchandising being sold, and the ticket sales they should be able to part ways with some of the money and give it the college athletes. This will help get what the college athletes deserve and what they earn every time they take part in the sport they are a part of. Fournier 4 Work Cited (n.d.). In The Sacramento Bee. Retrieved April 30, 2017, from http://www.sacbee.com/news/state/california/article138668598.html Missions and Goals. (n.d.). In NCPA. Retrieved April 30, 2017, from http://www.ncpanow.org/about/mission-goals Study: The Price of Poverty in Big Time College . (n.d.). In NCPA. Retrieved from http://www.ncpanow.org/research/study-the-price-of-poverty-in-big-time-college-sport Gaines, C. (2016, October 14). Business Insider. Retrieved from http://www.businessinsider.com: http://www.businessinsider.com/ncaa-schools-college- sports-revenue-2016-10 Abdul-Jabber, K. (2014, November 13). Jacobin. Retrieved from www.jacobinmag.com: https://www.jacobinmag.com/2014/11/college-athletes-of-the-world-unite/