Stenbeck 1 Zach Stenbeck Fennell ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The Real Problem at Hand Imagine, being left alone thinking that no one cares for you. You are all by yourself in such a big and scary world. You can only imagine this. Stray dogs live this tragic reality. Only one out of every 10 dogs born will find a permeant home (The Mosby Foundation, 2015). There is no way to determine how many strays there actually are in the United States. This can all be avoided if potential owners really think about their decision on getting a dog. Loving your furry friend and being there is most important because no matter what as long as they are with you, they will always love you. To begin with, dogs are said to be best friend and this is entirely true. A dog will never stop looking for the love of its owner. Something that does happen though is the owner will give up on their pet. These owners were never fully committed to owning a dog. The dog is neglected and practically left on its own. The wrong way to deal with this is leaving the dog somewhere on its own like a dog park or just in a random field. It may seem crazy but people actually end up doing this. Approximately 7.6 million companion animals enter animal shelters nationwide every year. Of those, approximately 3.9 million are dogs and 3.4 million are cats (ASPCA, 2015). This can all be avoided. If a potential owner sits down and goes over their schedule and is familiar with their financial standing, they should be prepped enough to care for an animal. Consideration should be taken on whether or not you should adopt or buy from a pet store. Each year, approximately 2.7 million dogs and cats are killed every year because shelters Stenbeck 2 are too full and there are not enough adoptive homes (ASPCA, 2015). It should definitely be a thought because all a dog from a shelter wants is love from its human and everything deserves love from another no matter what. To continue, try putting yourself in the metaphorical shoes of a stray dog. You are alone, hungry, and on the constant search for love but have no idea where to go. It is like living in absolute poverty, the only difference is people will not throw you a couple dollars for food. Homeless animals outnumber homeless people 5 to 1 (Smith, 2007). It is upsetting to see a mother of four puppies struggling to survive when she must for her children. She had a home once, with a family that loved until she got older and was not a puppy anymore. The worst thing that could be done to her is that she was left at a park. Within a couple weeks, she can end up in the scenario given above. Only 10% of the animals received by shelters have been spayed or neutered. Overpopulation, due to owners letting their pets accidentally or intentionally reproduce, sees millions of these animals killed annually (ASPCA, 2015). One other problem is how well kept the dog is while indoors or if identification is provided when they get lost. Many strays are lost pets that were not kept properly indoors or provided with identification (ASPCA, 2015). Loving and caring for a dog is the easy part. There is no reason to give up on them because they would never give up on you. As a solution, what can be done to avoid all this nonsense is to make sure, before any animal is bought, you are prepared to care for and spend a decent amount of time with your furry friend. You cannot ever get bored with them because they will not and it has not even been proven that a dog can stop loving you. impossible to determine how many stray dogs and cats live in the United States. Estimates for dogs alone range up to 50 million (ASPCA, 2015). The next thing that should be done when one is considering buying a dog is whether or not it Stenbeck 3 should be adopted from a shelter or bought at a pet store. If you have smaller children it is probably best to talk to the adoption center first. There is no telling what a stray or abused dog has been through. You should always check with your local adoption center before you check out the pet store. There is a greater chance that a dog from a pet store will find a home rather than a dog at a shelter. Another thing is the dog at the store has more time to find its owner. While every animal shelter is different most follow the basic 72-hour guideline. This means that if a stray pet is brought to the shelter they must hold it for a minimum of 72 hours before euthanizing it (putting it to sleep) (ASPCA, 2015). It is always a good feeling knowing that you are some hero and every day, if you adopt, you are that hero. To conclude, imagine, being left alone thinking that no one cares for you. You are all by yourself in such a big and scary world. When all of a sudden you see someone approaching you with an outstretched arm and open hand. You feel relieved. Now imagine you being on the other side of that confrontation and the one you are approaching is a small dog overjoyed because someone, after so long, is showing that they care. You can be that person, you can their hero, and you can be best friends because they will always love you and you will do the same. Stenbeck 4 Work Cited American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Pet  Web Accessed February 26, 2015. 1 Smith, Ethan, and Guy Dauncey. Building an ark 101 solutions to animal suffering. Gabriola Island, B.C.: New Society, 2007. The Mosby Foundation. Truth of what happens to shelter animals  Web Accessed February 23, 2015.