Ajayi1 Hadijat Ajayi Ms. Ashley Tisdale ENC 1101 21 March 2017 Impact of the Digital Revolution Social media became a frequented venue for conversation when it first emerged just a few years ago. As the internet has expanded and evolved to become what we know today, the concept of social media as approachable outlet for self-divulgence has proved to be a popular trend. Scholarly conversations and studies around the realm of social media has been legitimatized, and is now more relevant than perhaps ever before. From 2009 to 2017, the accessible research surrounding social media has not only increased in frequency, but also has emerged in sophistication. Early hypotheses simply asked why social media is used, how often, and by whom it was used. As studies regarding social media progressed, distinct vernacular became associated with specific aspects of social media and challenges of the advantages and disadvantages of the digital world settled into everyday opinions. In 2009, studies showed interest in how and why social media sites are used. During this time, Facebook was the most dominant online site that was used for the leisurely activity of coordinating with friends, family, and sometimes, strangers, or potential associates. A six-month study conducted in Australia surveys the elderly community and their involvement with the internet. Data concludes that those who are active members of the online community and social media, feel more involved and less lonely (Hughes 238). Members of the online community now had access to multiple avenues to post their personal profiles and engage in public, and private conversation on these sites. Studies suggest social media is a necessity as it aids to the development of the adolescent. One self-reflective study interprets presence on social Ajayi2 media as a key resolution to developmental issues that arise during the transition into adulthood (Calvert 236). In 2010, new social media sites emerged. The presence of these sites resulted in the diminishing of the monopoly held by pioneers such as Facebook or MySpace. Sites such as LinkedIn, became just as common place as any other social media, but aimed to serve a new purpose. Social networking sites can be described as applications that enable users to connect by creating personal information  that are used to connect with friends and colleagues (Haenlein 63). Networking sites utilize User Generated  to create these profiles in order to have a more professional method of connecting potential associates. The social media revolution has established participation within the online community as an everyday activity. So much so, that it has transformed from being solely associated with leisure, to a business platform. Before social media became a regular outlet for marketing, the advantages and disadvantages were questioned in regards to social media usage. Research suggests that social media has a significant impact on the psychology of an self- identity. The opportunity for instant feedback can act in self-serving or harmful ways towards  (Belangee, 131). Examining benefits and drawbacks of social media use has proved to be subjective. While some choose to fully submerge themselves into social media, others choose to use the sites sparingly. Those who frequent social media are more likely to appreciate the refuge provided within. Whereas, there are other audiences who stand in stark contrast to individuals who do not hold this belief about connection with  (Belangee, 131) and therefore acknowledge more of the disadvantages proposed via use of social media. In the years following, leading up to an article published in 2016, marketing via social media sites became a point of interest. Ajayi3 In 2016, analyses of online marketing and web usage are presented from data collected overseas. Researchers in China, the largest internet market (Choi 982), concluded a five- year study which evaluated statistics associated with various search engines. Domestic search engines were a focal point when understanding responses to online marketing. The non- monopolization of Google and other American based search engines were also an important factor of this study. This article is representative of the rapid transition the internet made from relying on a limited number of available online platforms to the expansion of the global market. The research acknowledges the advantages of domestic search engines and their ability to promote cultural through the of more local in a more efficient way than could global search engines (Choi 992). In the past few years, it has been observed that the internet has drifted from its initial journey to promote community and since has been manipulated into an optimal outlet for new addictions. Back in 2010, Andreas M. Kaplan and Michael Haenlein recognize that the Urban Dictionary has coined the term (Haenlein 64). Seven years later, Cecilie Schou Andreassen, Pallesen, and Mark D. Griffiths publish a legitimate evaluation of social media addiction and their connection to self-esteem and narcissism. This article reviewed a study which aimed to evaluate the association of social media use to demographics and other individual factors (Andreassen 291). Inquiries about the social media had clearly evolved as researchers utilized an accepted addiction rating system, the Bergen Social Media Addiction Scale, which had been modified from the 2012 Bergen Facebook Addiction Scale (Andreassen 289). There is a tangible evolution from the primitive definition of Facebook addiction generated on the Urban Dictionary to a credible, accepted system of evaluating real addictions to social media. Not only is it clear to see this evolution, but data shows a positive correlation between Ajayi4 narcissism and use of social and suggests people may use social media in order to obtain higher (Andreassen, 291). In the past eight years, focus has shifted from general inquiries as to how and why the internet is used, to the advantages and drawbacks of social media and social networking, or marketing. Scholarly conversations have become more centered on in depth research towards understanding unique facets of internet usage. Social media began as a single, fairly simple platform, that has diverged into an elaborate, rapidly evolving culture within society. Ajayi5 Works Cited Andreassen, Cecilie Schou, Pallesen, and Mark D. Griffiths. relationship between addictive use of social media, narcissism, and self-esteem: Findings from a large national Addictive Behaviors 64 (2017): 287-93. Web. Belangee, Susan, Marina Bluvshtein, and Daniel Haugen. Connectedness: A Survey of Perceived Benefits and Disadvantages of Social Media The Journal of Individual Psychology 71.2 (2015): 122-34. Web. Calvert, Sandra L., Tiffany A. Pempek, and Yevdokiya A. Yermolayeva. College social networking experiences on  Journal of Applied Developmental Psychology 30.3 (2009): 227-38. Web. Choi, Young-Jun, Sung Wook Ji, and Min Ho Ryu. economic effects of domestic search engines on the development of the online advertising Telecommunications Policy 40.10-11 (2016): 982-95. Web. Haenlein, Michael, and Andreas M. Kaplan. Users of the world, unite! The challenges and opportunities of Social  Business Horizons 53.1 (2010): 59-68. Web. Hughes, Ian, Shima Sum, Mark R. Mathews, and Mohsen Pourghasem. use as a predictor of sense of community in older Cyberpsychology and Behavior 12(2) (2009): 235-239. Web.