Gass 1 Darren Gass ENC 1102.910s17 Kristin Gocinski May 3 rd 2017 To Live Forever: Should It Be Done? Throughout millenniums kings and emperors have strived to live forever. Ponce De Leon came all the way to Florida from the new world searching for the mythical fountain of youth in his quest to live forever. Many people want to live forever, they imagine themselves becoming old, having a hunch back, being in pain. This is not what is being promoted, increasing the time one are healthy and not in pain, to increase health span, not lifespan is what will create benefits. Throughout this paper, trying to live forever and increasing health span are the same goal, they are accomplished by doing the same things and reap the same benefits. Everybody, including the World Food Programme, can help create social and economic growth through increasing their health span. The organization that can benefit from increasing their health span as long as possible is the World Food Programme or WFP. Their mission statement is to emergency and economic & social Feeding the poor in third world countries, and advancing already advanced nations both fall into the goals of the WFP. These goals can be achieved by trying to living forever. The WFP and every single person can help meet emergency needs and support economic and social development by increasing their health span as much as possible through manipulating their bodies with science. This is because increasing healthspan will create more wealth and time, both of which can be used to accomplish anything. Gass 2 The average person would not think that eating healthy would result in feeding the poor, but it does, even if one personally feed the poor. So the WFP can ultimately feed the poor by having good health within their organization and promoting it to others. When one does not eat healthy they develop diseases, and need to spend a whopping amount of money on medical bills. As an example of how costly disease can be is that the cost America wastes to treat chronic pulmonary heart disease is a crazy $50 billion dollars annually(Guaraisco). This $50 billion would be better invested in businesses which would grow the economy at a faster rate. A better economy faster means technology comes out faster. Better technology means people have more resources to put into feeding the poor and developing social and economic development, which are the goals of the WFP. Members of the WFP should eat healthy so they will have more disposable income to spend on donations to the WFP because they waste money on treating illnesses. Now that it is clear that not increasing health span leads to disease, and disease leads to a large part of the economy being wasted, how can health span be increased? There are very specific actions to be taken to increase health span. First examine why people age in the first place. Telomeres are at the end of DNA strands and they act as janitors for the DNA helping maintain it. Every time a cell separates it must re-create a new strand of DNA. A study was done which helped point out that length has been associated with aging and disease. As we age, telomeres become shorter and shorter until the cells die or transform into oncogenic cells. Short telomeres have been linked with cancer, heart disease, and (Shammas). Knowing this telomere length is a good indicator as to how old someone is. What causes telomeres to shorten? Free radicals which are formed by radiation and they tear apart the insides of our bodies specifically the telomeres. Luckily for people, antioxidants reduce the Gass 3 amount of free radicals in the body which keep telomeres long and cancer to a minimum (Shammas). The easiest, most convenient, and surprisingly delicious way to get antioxidants in diet is through green tea(Lambert). If all the members of the WFP drank green tea and other antioxidants much more than they do now, they will live longer so they will have more time and money to help the WFP. Besides anti-oxidants there are other changes that can be made to the diet to increase health span as long as possible. Diving into some ancient Japanese knowledge we get the saying until only 80% this saying comes from Okinowa the city with the longest lifespan in the world(Mishra). Caloric restriction has even been scientifically proven to increase lifespan in mice and monkeys. In mice it increased their lifespan on average of 10%-20% (Weindruch). Debatably the healthiest food besides antio-oxidants is salmon, due to omega-3 fatty acid content. However salmon is rather on the expensive side, so the cheaper it is the more salmon people will eat. A very interesting study found that marketing of genetically modified (GM) salmon will lower salmon prices and increase consumption of will prevent between 600 and 2,600 deaths per year in the United (Tucker). This shows how effective salmon is at preventing death and increasing health span. Members of the WFP should eat, and promote others to eat more salmon. These have all been changes to diet, but what other things can be done to increase health span? It is common knowledge the benefits of physical exercise, but the benefits of mental exercise can be almost as great. Who has a sharper mind, a 20 year old college student, or a 60 year old Tibetan monk who has been meditating for 5 hours a day his entire life? Science would probably say the monk. One study found this about meditation and cognitive decline Gass 4 control subjects displayed the expected negative correlation of both gray matter volume and attentional performance with age, meditators did not show a significant correlation of either measure with (Pagnoni) Does this mean meditation can completely halt the mind from ageing? In some ways at least, yes. The mind is like a muscle, it will deteriorate if it is not used, and will be susceptible to fatal diseases like Another way to increase grey matter and size of the brain is juggling. A study found that consistent juggling increased brain size and mental strength, and if stopped the brain would shrink. So with consistant juggling and meditation, the brain can be just about completely excluded from ever deteriorating, increasing health span. The older members of the WFP end up retiring from the organization because their minds are not sharp enough to contribute. Meditation and juggling will increase the average length of memberships for the WFP and its younger members will have enhanced cognitive skills which they can promote the WFP goals with. This has all been how to live longer, but how is the jump made to live forever? This is all hypothetical because no one has even lived past 125 much less then forever. The most practical and least science fiction way, is through nanobots. Nanobots be possible until atomic manufacturing and computing is possible, but they would go into our bodies and fix all the damage that has been caused by ageing. Another way is by preserving DNA when young and telomeres are still short in a laboratory. There are a few things that can be done from here to live forever. One thing that can be done with the DNA of your younger self is to be combined with stem-cells, and then injected into the body. It is like injecting yourself with your younger self. The second thing that can be done sounds impossible, but keep in mind up until 50 years ago it was thought that heart transplants were impossible. It is that if one has DNA preserved from a younger version of themself before the telomeres were shortened and mutations piled up, one can Gass 5 clone themselves and then do a brain transplant into younger self. The final way it would be possible to live forever, is if we could download our consciousness to computers. Some scientists believe this can be possible by 2050. If the members of the WFP all preserved their DNA they will be able to live longer and possibly forever, if members of the WFP can live forever they can donate much more time to the goals of the WFP. The WFP can launch low budget educational campaigns with the members who have free time to the public on how to increase lifespan which will create social and economic growth(The goals of WFP) as proven above. This will be done in advanced places where most members of the WFP are. Several years down the line the WFP will be in a more technologically advanced society because they will lessen the burden of disease on that society. They can then use that technology to mass produce food for the poor and transport it to them. However, this would not be the main benefit of the WFP launching an educational health campaign. If the members of the WFP just get taught how to live longer, but teach how to live longer, they are much more likely to practice what they preach. This will cause the WFP to become one of the healthiest organizations on the planet. It is safe to say if they adopted these strategies they will live anywhere between 10% to an infinite amount longer. Just a 10% increase in the average membership of the WFP would have more benefits than meets the eye. say the average rate of return on a member of the WFP investment is a modest 10%, due to compound interest after about 7 years this members money invested would double. So if the WFP ate healthy enough to live just 7 years longer, they would double the amount of money they receive from their members, because their members would be twice as rich. This is the most profound impact extending health span would have on the WFP. Gass 6 In summation it was proven that increasing health span as much as possible would improve save trillions of dollars worldwide which would lead to social and economic growth, which are the goals of the WFP. This will eventually have a more profound impact on the WFP because they can utilize the technologies of the more advanced society. Also if people in the WFP could live just 7 years longer on average it would double the amount of money the older members of the WFP have which would increase the size of donations. Some people will read this article and make excuses like just wait for the life extension discoveries and technology to come Well the life extension technology and discoveries have already come out we just need to utilize them. Let me point out a profound statistic, from 1901 to 1991 the average life expectancy went from 45 to 75, but only estimated to go from 75 to 77 from 2020 to 2020 (Turner). How is the rise of average life expectancy slowing down when the rate of technology and discoveries is going up? It has nothing to do with technology and everything to do with the choices people make. It is proven that Americans are getting fatter (Cutler). make the poor choices most Americans make, make the choices that will increase health span well beyond 77 years of age. Utilize the discoveries and technology gone over in this paper and implement it into life and live long and climb mountains into old age. Gass 7 Works Cited Guaraisco Anthony, clinical and economic burden of chronic pulmonary heart Dovepress. Web accessed 22 April 2017. <https://www.deepdyve.com/lp/pubmedcentral/the-clinical-and-economic-burden-of- chronic-obstructive-pulmonary- ZKEJ5w0Ja0/Available%20from:%20http://www.lung.org/finding-cures/our- research/trendreports/copd-trend-report.pdf> Shammas, Masood A. Telomeres, Lifestyle, Cancer, and  Current Opinion in Clinical Nutrition and Metabolic Care. U.S. National Library of Medicine, Jan. 2011. Web accessed 11 Apr. 2017. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3370421/> Turner, Bryan Stanley. Can We Live Forever?: A Sociological and Moral Inquiry. London: Anthem, 2009. Print. Vance, David. Potential Factors That May Promote Successful Cognitive  Nursing: Research and Reviews, 19 June 2012. Web accessed 4 Apr. 2017. <http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.1006.2860&rep=rep1&type=pdf> Gass 8 Lambert, Joshua. The Antioxidant and Pro-oxidant Activities of Green Tea Polyphenols: A Role in Cancer  The Antioxidant and Pro-oxidant Activities of Green Tea Polyphenols: A Role in Cancer Prevention. 1 Sept. 2010. Web accessed 19 Apr. 2017. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2946098/> Pagnoni, Giuseppe. Age Effects on Gray Matter Volume and Attentional Performance in Zen  Neurobiology of Ageing. Oct. 2007. Web accessed 19 Apr. 2017. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17655980> Mishra, Badri N. Secret of Eternal Youth; Teaching from the Centenarian Hot Spots  Indian Journal of Community Medicine : Official Publication of Indian Association of Preventive & Social Medicine. Medknow Publications, Oct. 2009. Web accessed 19 Apr. 2017. < https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2822182/> Weindruch, R., and RL Walford. Dietary Restriction in Mice Beginning at 1 Year of Age: Effect on Life-span and Spontaneous Cancer  Science. American Association for the Advancement of Science, 12 Mar. 1982. Web accessed 19 Apr. 2017. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7063854> Gass 9 Cutler, David M., Edward L. Glaeser, and Jesse M. Shapiro. Why Have Americans Become More  Latest TOC RSS. American Economic Association, 01 Aug. 2003. Web accessed 19 Apr. 2017. Tucker, Randall Lutter and Katherine. Unacknowledged Health Benefits of Genetically Modified Food: Salmon and Heart Disease  AgBioForum, 15 Mar. 2003. Web accessed 22 Apr. 2017. <http://agbioforum.org/v5n2/v5n2a04-lutter.htm> WFP - Mission. Web. 22 Apr. 2017 <https://donate.wfp.org/supporter/casematerial.do?n=gbss&cmdbid=1033610&or=ld>