Viviana M. Milla Milla Milla Professor Spencer Bennington ENC 1102 29 April 2017 1 An initiative to increase Middle Eastern education that can produce the economic growth of Tampa The solution of the low literacy levels of Middle Eastern women, is a fact that can bring many social and economic benefits to the entire world. Due to their common background and history, Middle Eastern countries believe that the education of women is a topic that must be related with religion. For instance, countries like Pakistan and Algeria consider that the gap between and education is justify by the Holy Quran (Rose 193). Therefore, MENA, Middle East and North Africa, countries admit the intrusion of Islam in political and social issues. The truth is that men has used religion as an excuse for the deprivation of basic right to education, in order to preserve their patriarchal order. Therefore, the misogynous Middle Eastern society deprives girls of the resources to have an equal academic background. As a consequence, many that promote the equal education between men and women in the middle east, have been formed. The problem is that those organizations lack of the governmental support. As the European Parliament mention in their report of the situation of women in the gulf states, Middle Eastern have an insignificant impact in the societies where they develop, because they are oppressed by the National governments (Seikaly and Roodsaz 155). Since the end of the twenty century, international organizations such as the World bank and UN Women have economically supported the education of middle eastern women. In 2015, United Nations Milla 2 Women donated 2 billion dollars to institutions of higher education in Europe and United States, in order to sponsor scholarships and loans for the middle eastern population; for instance, a brief list of those programs include the Onsi Sawiris Scholarship Program, the Fulbright Foreign Student Program and the Chevening Scholarships Programs in UK. In addition, different higher education institutions in United States and Europe have privately supported the development of middle eastern scholars. That is the case of the university of South Florida, USF, that brings in-state tuition and scholarships to international students with high academic performance. The problem is that the majority of those programs are focused in the entire population of the middle eastern countries, and not just in the middle eastern women. That leads to a disequilibrium in the distribution of vacancies between men and women, because a greater part of the scholarships is gained by men. According to an analysis made by UNESCO, there is no biological difference that constraint middle eastern women to equally develop than their masculine peers, therefore, the difference in development between men and women is produced by the different economical support receive by each gender (150). That means that despite middle eastern women have the same capabilities than men, they can not access to the same academic and educational resources. The education of the middle eastern women will not only benefit the regions from where those women are from, but also will bring economic growth to the region where those programs are supported. For that reason, the USF department of global studies in collaboration with the alumni must sponsor an equal education between genders in the middle east thought the creation of a special type of scholarship for middle Eastern women that in the long run will generate the economic growth of the area. An increase in USF funds designated to support scholarships for middle Eastern women, not only will help to the development of those women, but also will benefit USF and the community involve in this initiative. In 2016, USF dedicated $ 220 United States Dollars to Milla 3 support the education of international students (College Board 303). It is noticeable that 55% of those funds were dedicated to support the education of middle eastern people, however of that percentage just 10% were exclusively dedicated to support the education of middle eastern women. The problem is that women in those countries do not have access to the same resources as men do, therefore, the creation of more scholarships will just implicitly contribute to the growth of the educational gap between genders in the Middle East. For that reason, a possible solution will be the creation of a special type of scholarship just focus on middle eastern women. According to UNICEF, scholarships are the most effective method to reduce the educational gap between women and men. In addition, is the method that generates more social and economic impact (50). Undoubtedly, an increase in the economic support bring to scholarships for Middle Eastern women will benefit middle eastern girls; however, the question that rises is how this scholarship program will help to the economic and social growth of USF and the city of Tampa. Firstly, the education of middle eastern women will generate a tremendous economic surplus that will impact the economic growth of the city of Tampa. As the UK department for international development reported, the European cities that invest more funds to support the education of middle eastern women experienced a return to education investment of 80% that allowed the generation of a 50% more surplus than without the investment (81). That means that those cities that invested in the education of middle eastern women, obtained more economic surplus that was enjoyed among the entire population of the city. Another consequence of the economic surplus generated by the education of middle eastern women, was the growth of employment that generated an increase of the income per capita that allowed the growth of the purchasing power. That is the case of cities as Munich, Berlin and Frankfurt, where middle eastern education is entirely supported by the state (Momani 12). Therefore, by Milla 4 supporting the education of middle eastern women, the city of Tampa will not only recover its investment, but in addition will ameliorate the economic situation of the average worker. Thus to achieve the education of middle eastern women and the economic growth of the city of Tampa, USF students must encourage and push USF and USF alumni to promote scholarships for Middle Eastern Women. In order to ensure a continuous economic development of the city of Tampa USF alumni must contribute economically and technologically to support the constant educational of middle eastern women. As UNESCO reported in 2015, the geographical areas where alumni contributed economically to the technological development of academic institutions, experienced a tremendous sustainable economic growth, allowing the reinvestment of resources to increase the percentage of educated women (12). This phenomenon happened, because when middle eastern women graduate, they tend to stay in the region where they where educated. Thus as a consequence, the level of highly skilled professionals increased in the area allowing better salaries for every worker. Moreover, middle eastern women tend to study professions, where high skilled workers were scarce. For instance, as UN Women reported middle eastern women helped to increase the health supply in United Kingdom and Iceland, where many doctors were scarce and expensive before (45). After the insertion of Middle Eastern women to the labor maker, health care became more efficient and accessible to the entire society. This benefit can be obtained by the city of Tampa if USF alumni contribute to this cause. In addition, Despite, economic investment will be the most direct way of support to middle eastern education, economic contributions will not be the only source of support. That means that USF alumni depending on the type of job they exercised, can contribute by organizing and promoting activities that will attract supporters and sponsors to this cause. For instance, UN Women mentioned that the majority of economic Milla 5 support obtained for middle eastern education was thanks to the continuous involvement of the community alumni (67). After a long research, Ostroski explained that the community alumni involvement to obtain Middle Eastern education, involuntarily produced a self benefit to the alumni (56). This means that if USF alumni contribute to the increment of scholarships for Middle Eastern women, at the end the only beneficiaries will be themselves. In conclusion, it is necessary that USF alumni know more about the benefits of contributing to the education of middle eastern women. As it was previously mentioned, the impact of this educational contribution will not only be perceived by middle eastern women, but also by the entire city of Tampa. The new USF professionals will experience highly wages as more middle eastern women are educated in the city, because investors will be more attracted to Tampa due to the increase of highly skilled professionals. Moreover, professional sectors with scarcity of highly skilled professionals such as health care will be benefitted by this educational program that at the end will benefit the entire society by reducing the cost of health. For those reasons, USF alumni have the power to contribute must economically and socially to the education of middle eastern women and the development of the society.. Milla 6 Works Cited College Board, Trends in College Pricing 2015. College Board Press. January 2015. http://trends.collegeboard.org/sites/default/files/2015-trends-college-pricing-final- 508.pdf Department for International Development. education: towards a better future for All. UK governmental press. January 2005. http://www2.ohchr.org/english/issues/development/docs/girlseducation.pdf Momani, Bessma. Equality and the Economy: Why the Arab World Should Employ More Women. Brooking Doha Center. August 2016. https://www.brookings.edu/wp- Ostroski, Christine. access to education in the Middle East. Warthburg College Press. August 2015. http://public.wartburg.edu/mpsurc/images/ostrosky.pdf Rose, Pauline. Female Education and Adjustment Programs: A Cross Country Statistical Analysis. Vol. 23, No. 11, pp. 193 I-1949. University of Manchester Press.1995. http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/0305750X95 00091P Milla 7 Seikaly, May et Rahil Roodsaz. The situation of Women in the Gulf States. European Parliament Press. January 2014. United Nations Fund (UNICEF). The investment case for education and equity. United Nations Press. January 2015. United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Education and skills for inclusive and sustainable development beyond 2015. May 2012. United Nations Women. Progress Of The Women 2015-2016, transforming Economies, realizing rights. United Nation Press. June 2016.