ALRASBI 1 Alnaser Alrasbi Anastasia J. Khawaja ENC 1101 04/30/2017 Cosmetic surgery Nowadays, cosmetic surgery has become more popular because it gave people a chance to live again as normal people without physical defects. Plastic surgery has been used since WWI until now, and the techniques to make plastic surgery easier keep improving. Many people think that cosmetic surgery is about improving attractive body parts like the breast and other parts that make the person more attractive. However, there are two kinds of plastic surgery. First, cosmetic surgery is used to improve body by increasing or reducing the size of specific parts like breast, nose, and lips. Second, reconstructive surgery is improving physical defects of people who had severe injuries such as car accident, birth defects, skin distortion, and burning. Although cosmetic surgery can help people who have physical malformations to improve their physical defects, plastic surgery makes people look more beautiful, without physical defects. Even though cosmetic surgery is very helpful for those people who do not like their bodies and get upset by seeing someone who looks normal and beautiful, there are many negative side effects because of unsuccessful surgery. On the other hand, many people disagree with plastic surgery, saying that plastic surgery can cause a risk in people life like heart attack. However, the positive effect of cosmetic surgery is more than the negative effect, so that it makes plastic surgery useful, making people look more beautiful. ALRASBI 2 The first reconstructive surgery was during WWI by Surgeon Harold Gillies, Harold Gillies was born in 1882, in New Zealand. He studies medicine a Cambridge University in the UK, and he joined the medical corps in France during WWI. Moreover, The first cosmetic surgery was during WWI by Surgeon Harold Gillies, and was the first surgeon did plastic surgery during WWI. Harold Gillies helped many men slider who lost some parts from their bodies, for example, sustained terrible facial injuries, including the loss of his upper and lower eyelids, while manning the guns aboard the HMS Warspite in 1916 during the Battle of 01). And Surgeon Harold made a smile in his face by used skin graft for the first time, and newly-developed technique was the only way to cure Walter. After that Surgeon Harold Gillies opened a first ward to treat facial deformities at Queen Hospital in London, and that make the field of cosmetic surgery popular. During WWI biggest killer on the battlefield and the cause of many facial injuries was 01). After the battlefield million of men soldiers died, and tow million came severely injured for example some of them they lost some part of their bodies, and the only way to draw the smile in their faces is help them by cosmetic surgery. On another hand, many people do cosmetic surgery to improve their attractive bodies, and the reason that makes people do this kind of surgery is to be a model and look more beauty like Breast Enhancement, Facial Contouring, and Body Contouring. And the reasons to do this surgery Cosmetic surgeons use many new development techniques to achieve good result, and make the patients satisfied for the result for example body sculpting surgery, patients can effectively eliminate excess fat and skin that are unresponsive to diet and 27). However, plastic surgery gives people ALRASBI 3 chance to improve their physical defects, and there are many reasons cause physical defects like a car accident, birth defects, and blasts. Plus, the hardest kind of cosmetic surgery is sexual change surgery, and man can change their gender from male to female or contrary that. And is consider the hardest cosmetic surgery kind because change gender is reassignment surgery can be difficult to obtain, due to a combination of financial barriers and lack of Wroblewski ,573), and the surgeon face a lot of difficulties to change the different sexual bodies parts. While some people do plastic surgery to look more beauty, some people have to undergo reconstructive surgery to rebuild their damaged bodies parts after strong bodily injuries because accidents and surgeries mistakes. According to the American Academy of Aesthetic Plastic Surgery spend over $7 million last year in surgical procedures 12), so many people believe that cosmetic surgery can make people in risk for the people who have physical defects because unsuccessful surgeries. People saying wasting millions for good benefit will make people life better, instead of wasting millions for unneeded cosmetic surgery is not good at all. And only people who had severe injury deserve cosmetic surgery because they need it to live back in their life, for example if someone lost his legs, he will not be able to walk again and that will make him unhappy for the rest of his life. However, reconstructive surgeries help people to continue their life as normal people for example industrial foot or industrial hand for people who lost their hands or foots. And there are many negative side ALRASBI 4 effects people who did plastic surgery may have it like is a pocket of blood that resembles a large, painful bruise. It occurs in 1-6 percent of breast augmentation procedures and is the most common complication after a 01). In addition many people saying plastic surgery negative side effects is put people who did plastic surgery at the risk, and the most negative side effects are Nerve Damge, and Infection and Scarring, also organ Damage. The first use of cosmetic surgery was during WWI, and people still doing cosmetic surgery until today. Plastic surgery divides to tow main part; the first part is cosmetic surgery that people do it to look more beauty, and the second part is reconstructive surgery that people do it to reconstruct their damaged part. People saying that plastic surgery is helpful, and at the same time some people disagree with that, but they agree in few situation for example reconstructive surgery is more helpful than cosmetic surgery. Even though when people did the first plastic surgery was reconstructed part, so after that plastic surgery field improved to make people look beauty, but some old people saying why we do cosmetic surgery to look young, so that make cosmetic surgery contradictory views topic. Finally, Many people believe that plastic surgery is not useful, and people do it to look more beauty, but that is not correct at all. Cosmetic surgery gives people who went through a miserable disaster an opportunity to live again. ALRASBI 5 Works Cited Dittmann, Melissa. Plastic surgery: Beauty or  (n.d.): 22-43. Web. Sept. 2005. Mosley, Michael. BBC Wonder - How do you fix a face been blown off by  BBC News. BBC, n.d. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. Schaefer, Anna. The 10 Most Common Plastic Surgery  Healthline. Healthline Media, 04 Feb. 2015. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Shah, Yagana. 4 Good Reasons To Never Get Plastic  N.p., 07 Aug. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Telegraph, Daily. Walter Ernest Yeo - One of the first people to undergo Plastic  First Plastic Surgeries (n.d.): 83-97. Web. 28 August. 2008 Wroblewski, Peter, Jonas Gustafsson, and Gennaro Selvaggi. Sex reassignment surgery for  Current Opinion in Endocrinology, Diabetes and Obesity 20.6 (2013): 570-574.