West 1 Jillian West Kristen Gocinski ENC 1102-012 3 May 2017 Human Rights Watch and Sexual Objectification woman in the United States participates in a daily beauty pageant, whether she likes it or (YWCA). It is problematic to know that women cannot walk down the street without being picked a part and judged. Sexual objectification discredits the integrity of a woman and violates the rights women deserve as human beings. Human Rights Watch must take steps to support the rights of all women who go unacknowledged while expressing the detrimental impact women suffer from sexual objectification. Sexual objectification is represented through all types of media, video games, magazines, etc., and endangers security. objectification is the act of treating a person as an instrument of sexual pleasure and happens when a body, body parts, or sexual functions are isolated from her whole and complex being and treated as objects simply to be looked at, coveted, or (Fredrickson and Roberts). Sexual objectification is a violation of human rights and should not be tolerated. Sexual objectification of women has become normalized through our society; advertisements and entertainment alike are objectifying women daily. The media glamourizes women as sexual beings and support women being approached aggressively by men for sexual favors. These images make it okay to approach women in any kind of way and to touch women without asking. With the acceptance of sexual objectification, society allows rape behavior. That if a woman is wearing similar clothing to the model in the latest magazine she obliviously wants to have sex and even if she says no she really means yes. West 2 Avatars Lead to Self-Objectification and Acceptance of Rape provides information about videogames and their hypersexual representations of women. Men are mostly covered in armor for adventure/fighting videogames while women have barely any protection and even less clothing. Video games break records in sales due to their hypersexualized women avatars portrayed as strippers and prostitutes and the violent acts the women encounter. Researchers developed a study in which they predicted that this would lead to rape myth acceptance. How women are represented and treated in the video games shows that the violent acts are acceptable in real life. If a woman were to come forward about being sexually harassed and/or raped she would first be questioned about what she wore, if she is sexually active, etc. before being served any actual justice. This is because society faults women for these violent acts even though woman have the right to security and to not be discriminated against. Sexual objectification not only affects how others treat women, but how they treat themselves. College women who were more exposed to sexualized avatars experienced more self- objectification than others (Fox, Jesse, et al.). The impact video games have amongst society shows that the media accepts women being valued only by their appearance and sexuality; that their rights to their own body can be violated without consequences. Women are perceived as walking sexual objects, instead of their intelligence and competence. Human Rights Watch defends the rights of people worldwide. They investigate abuses, expose the facts widely, and pressure those with power to respect rights and secure justice Human Rights Watch is an independent, international organization that works to uphold human dignity and advance the cause of human rights for all. Human Rights Watch values their commitment to their mission of defending human rights worldwide. They are actively focused on impact and are committed remaining accurate and fair while being guided by West 3 international human rights and humanitarian law to ensure respect for each human being Human Rights Watch is a nonprofit organization and does not accept any private funder that could compromise their objectivity and independence. Sexual objectification disrupts the dignity of women but, with Human Rights engagement, women will restore their right to security. Since sexual objectification of women occurs in everyday media, the engagement the Human Rights Watch provides will maximize their impact across the nation. They will reach others who are unacknowledged but are effected by sexual objectification; like women in sex trafficking who are stolen from their freedom and sold because of the ability to capitalize on the they have. Sexual objectification is normalized throughout the society so the acts that follows often go unnoticed until it is too late. This is because the perception of women is tainted with sex, incompetence, and inhumane. With Human Rights recognition of this problem, they will benefit by defending voices of women who feel they cannot speak out. By being involved, Human Rights Watch will discontinue the disgusting perception of what a woman is. Human Rights Watch is encouraging the diversity of women, opposed to how society portrays all women to be the same, when they engage in the removal of sexual objectification. They should engage by protesting against the objectification of women and provide encouragement to women individuality. They have to acknowledge that women do not serve as sex symbols. That women have a complex whole and are not described in parts. Society will benefit from this engagement because more women will feel secure within themselves and live according to their own expectations and not ones depicted by strangers. Sexual objectification degrades the importance of women all across the world, but Human Rights Watch will end the problematic perception that women endure. Human Rights West 4 Watch have to be involved to encourage the development of media literacy. Media literacy is the ability to access, analyze, evaluate and create media in a variety of forms (McKay). It is proven that social norms have dictated gender roles for men and women, with the incorporation of media literacy there will be a variety of roles for each gender (McKay). Women and men will not be put in boxes that determine what they have to be or look like through Human Rights engagement. Next, Human Rights Watch needs to develop comprehensive sexuality education programs in schools (McKay). This type of curriculum addresses age-appropriate physical, mental, emotional and social dimensions of human sexuality. Little girls will no longer be signaled out for the body parts they will develop. The understanding of how a complex body works will force those who objectify to reevaluate their thoughts and to consider all that woman encountered. This curriculum also acknowledges the mental and emotional effects girls would endure if they were struck with sexual objectification, like body consciousness, body shame, anxiety, etc. (McKay). Human Rights Watch will promote girl-positive media. Media that endorses the beauty of a young lady and not the sexuality that is perceived. A beauty should not be compromised because her breasts have not developed yet. Nor should those who have developed be encouraged or forced into sexual activity. In conclusion, sexual objectification discredits the integrity of a woman and is a violation of their human rights. Human Rights Watch will support the rights of all women who go unacknowledged while expressing the detrimental impact women suffer from sexual objectification. Through this engagement Human Rights Watch will benefit by diversifying their brand and disputing the harsh depiction of women, defending the voice of the unheard and protecting little girls from experiencing objectification themselves. There is no disgusting reality West 5 of a man who is sexualized, nor do they endure the consequences of objectification so this should not be tolerated for a woman. West 6 Works Cited Human Rights Watch, 2017. Accessed 22 Apr. 2017. Department of Applied  The Effects of Sexual Objectification on Mental. Accessed 20 Apr. 2017 Fox, Jesse, et al. Sexualized Avatars Lead To Self-Objectification And Acceptance Of Rape  Psychology Of Women Quarterly, vol. 39, no. 3, 2015, pp. 349-362. PsycINFO. Accessed 10 April. 2017. Greenleaf, Christy and Rosemary McGreer. Disordered Eating Attitudes and Self- Objectification among Physically Active and Sedentary Female College  The Journal of Psychology: Interdisciplinary and Applied, vol. 140, no. 3, May 2006, pp. 187-198. EBSCOhost. Accessed 10 April. 2017. Applied Psychology OPUS. NYU Steinhardt. Accessed 21 Apr. 2017. Loughnan, Steve, et al. Objectification Increases Rape Victim Blame and Decreases Perceived Sexual Objectification Increases Rape Victim Blame and Decreases Perceived Suffering, 2013. Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. McKay, Female Self-Objectification: Causes, Consequences and  McNair Scholars Research Journal, vol.6, no. 1, article 7, 2013. DOAJ Directory of Open Access Journals. Accessed 10 April. 2017. about Sexual National Sexual Resource Center, 2015. Accessed 20 Apr. 2017. YWCA Eliminating Racism, Empowering Women. YWCA USA. Accessed 20 Apr. 2017.