Elliott 1 Taryn Elliott Spencer Bennington ENC 1102 26 April 2017 Ending the Cycle of Poverty Its early in the morning, you are heading to work, and are waiting on a from your favorite coffee shop. They yell out your name when done, and you delight in the smoothness of the warm drink as it energizes you. your morning routine and what gets you through the rest of your day. also the end result of the livelihood of thousands of farmers and workers around the world. More than any other point in history, consumers are able to purchase goods and products created on opposite sides of the world. While this appears to be a huge positive, issues have risen with the expansion of trade. Workers, farmers, and laborers have all suffered from trade agreements through unfair working conditions and wages. Free trade makes exports and imports unregulated and without tariffs or quotas. This means farmers and workers in underdeveloped countries are competing with the cheap prices and lack of regulation, creating a lot of social and economic issues. Due to these problems, organizations like Fair Trade USA are determined to supply workers and farmers with fair conditions. Consumers are one of the most important factors in the effectiveness of Fairtrade policies. Through the purchase of certified fair trade products consumers help farmers and workers break the poverty cycle through education, equal pay, and a fair minimum market price. In under developed countries, especially the ones most effected by cycle, children often stop attending school in order to help the family work, but Fair Trade organizations are actively pursuing the end to this issue. Farmers and workers who are not Elliott 2 protected by Fair Trade organization often compensate poor and unfair wages by pulling their children out of school to work long hours (Fair Trade International). Fair Trade organizations have adopted a solution to this issue, however. In order for a farmer or worker to have their products certified fair trade, children must be enrolled in schools. This means if the worker wants to benefit from the Fair Trade organizations, children are not allowed to leave school. Education plays a crucial role in the end of the poverty cycle because it creates powerful opportunities for children. Education gives children who would otherwise be trapped by their economic status succeed in escaping the poverty cycle. According to Global Partnership for Education, education roughly increases annual income by 10% for every additional year of education (Global Partnership for Education). As you can see, education is clearly an important factor in whether or not a person can break the poverty cycle. When a buyer actively purchases products Fair Trade certified, there is a direct support of child education worldwide. Thus, consumers can help decrease the world poverty levels and encourage a right to an education. Education is not the only way the poverty cycle is broken. It is only one portion of the positive impact fair trade products have on the world. Another way the purchase of Fair Trade certified products help reduce poverty is through gender equality for all workers and farmers. It is no secret that in the work place, women are consistently making less than men. This occurs even in developed countries, like the United States. In spite of this, women are still responsible for producing sixty to eighty percent of global food (FAO). Women play a crucial role in feeding the world, and yet most women are still making less for the same job a man does. Fair Trade organizations, however, acknowledge the importance and fundamental rights of women, and make the effort to ensure equality for all people. This happens because members of Fair Trade organizations are required by contract to Elliott 3 not discriminate on the basis of gender or marital status (Fair Trade International). This mean that if a worker or farmer wants to reap the benefits of being Fair Trade certified, it is the contract protected obligation to treat women equally. When a woman makes the same amount as a man, poverty decreases. Not only can consumers of these products help in the decrease of poverty, but also the process of ensuring equality for everyone, no matter their gender. Another way Fair Trade products help farmers and workers break the cycle of poverty is through a set minimum price on the market. One of the issues farmers and workers have with free trade practices is the price of goods can decrease drastically depending on competition and the market value of the product. Free trade eliminates tariffs and regulations, which means there is less money going to payments of the people making the products. This drastically impacts the annual income of the producer, promoting their personal involvement in the cycle of poverty. Fair Trade organizations set a minimum price per pound on goods in order to protect people from the unfair prices brought from free trade practices (Fair Trade Foundation). The minimum price means even though markets fluctuate and competition can change, farmers and workers can depend on their product to provide for the household. Fair Trade will continue to be implemented in underdeveloped countries only if consumers support the policies by purchasing goods certified Fair Trade. It is very important for you to make an effort to buy these types of products because it supplies the necessary funding to maintain the set market price and help farmers and workers out poverty. clear that Fair Trade is necessary for the betterment of our world. Fair Trade policies create safe, fair, and better working conditions for all people. The great part is, everyone can help! In order to get more farms and workers certified by Fairtrade organizations, consumers need to start purchasing products marked as certified Fair Trade. For every purchase, consumers Elliott 4 are actively and directly helping the hands of the many people responsible for creating the product. In order for fair trade organizations like Fair Trade USA to continue helping workers and farmers break the cycle of poverty, make sure you are checking for the Fair Trade Certified logo on all of your products. There are scores of brands and companies offering fair trade certified products. Green Mountain Coffee is a popular coffee roaster who purchases coffee beans solely through Fair Trade. As for the coffee powerhouse Starbucks, the company is slowly tiptoeing into the world of Fair Trade. Some drinks and brews are Fair Trade certified, and the more people purchases them, the more Starbucks will work on ensuring all their products are Fair Trade certified. A great place to find more information on what products and brands use Fairtrade certified materials and products is Fairtrade website. By committing to purchase products and goods that are Fairtrade certified, you are actively helping the end of the poverty cycle. Every time your morning coffee, clothes, or other purchases have the Fair Trade Certified logo on it, children are able to leave work and attend school, women are treated equally in the workplace, and farmers and workers are given fair and set prices. It is up to the consumers to support Fair Trade, and it is as easy as looking for the green and blue logo. Elliott 5 Works Cited Fairtrade  Home. Fair Trade Foundation, 2016. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. Fairtrade International (FLO): Fairtrade International. Fairtrade International, 2017. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. Fair Trade USA. Fair Trade USA, 2017. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. FAO. Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. FAO, 2017. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. The Global Partnership for Education. GPFE, n.d. Web. 27 Apr. 2017