Nicklaus Krems Spencer Bennington English Composition 2 4/29/17 Mars Colonization? Traveling to mars is a big step, not only technologically but for mankind. A larger step is to colonize Mars. There are many groups that have plans to colonize mars, SpaceX, NASA, and more specifically Mars One. Mars One is a group who is planning on being one of the first to colonize Mars. Their plans will have the first group of colonists in transit in 2031 and the second group to be in transit in 2033. They are not only a group who is planning on going to colonize mars but, moving the human race to the future and expand our future as the human race, while all plans are over a decade away from colonizing mars you can help on their venture by donating money to help fund setting up a colony, you can also help by spreading awareness by simply sharing their post on social media or telling friends about Mars One and their Mission. There are many reasons to go to Mars, and it too far in the future. One of the biggest reasons to colonize mars is to increase the chances that humanity will not go extinct. By expanding to a second planet it decreases the chances of a mass extinction. Be it how dinosaurs went extinct 65 million years ago due to an asteroid impact, warfare that extends into widespread chemical or nuclear warfare, or destruction of the planet due to pollution. While the chance of an asteroid hitting, Earth is very slim the chances that our pollution and straining issues is becoming more increasingly apparent. Tensions have been growing high with diplomacy with North Korea, as on April 28, they fired a test missile. (Wang) While the test failed, the major issue is that diplomacy between major powers specifically China and the U.S. has failed. It take much more for a massive war to break out if thing taken care of. If things taken care of soon and a major war breaks out the chances that chemical or nuclear weapons are used are going to greatly increase. Pollution has also been an increasingly major issue. With the Paris Agreement recently being widely ratified, the IIASA have published a study noting the next 10 years as being of heavy importance with curbing the effects of climate change with the expected rapid increase of emissions. (Walsh) This has also come in with another study that has concluded with the loss of the Great Barrier reef due to major bleaching events. (Raphael, Botti) Colonizing Mars is also next major step regarding space travel. In 1969; 48 years ago, we landed on the moon and then made it back. In 1998; 19 years ago, the first piece of the ISS (International Space Station) was in orbit around Earth. There was almost 30 years between the last two major accomplishes regarding Space. Based off this timeline we should have the next major accomplishment in 2027. So now is the time for the next big step, that step is to get to Mars. Getting to Mars is not only a step forward, but it is another step toward space travel and becoming a multi-planetary species. While colonizing mars is far in the future; there is a handful of things you can do to help even though you may feel that there is nothing that you could do to help. One of the things you can do to help Mars One to accomplish their goals is to donate money to them at http://www.mars-one.com/donate. Your donations currently go to funding the training of the first group of colonists intended to go to Mars and the equipment needed to get to Mars and to colonize Mars. If donating money is not a possibility or is not something interested in doing you can also help by spreading the word of them and their goals by simply sharing things via social media from their Twitter and Facebook. By spreading the word to more people, you are able to increase the amount of people aware of their goals which can increase the amount of people who donate to Mars One. Works Cited Mars One, www.mars-one.com/. Mars One Community Platform, community.mars-one.com/blog. Accessed 26 April. 2017. Walsh, Brian. ten years critical for achieving climate change Next ten years critical for achieving climate change goals - 2017 - IIASA, www.iiasa.ac.at/web/home/about/news/170413-carbon-cycle.html. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Raphael, T.J., and Alexandra Botti. say the Great Barrier Reef is officially Public Radio International, www.pri.org/stories/2017-04-18/scientists-say- great-barrier-reef-officially-dying. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Wang, Christine. Korea ballistic missile test fails, NBC News CNBC, CNBC, 28 Apr. 2017, www.cnbc.com/2017/04/28/north-korea-test-fires-ballistic- missile-report.html. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017.