Embry1 Claire Embry Professor Spencer Bennington Composition two 28 April 2017 The Road to A Solution: Conflict Diamonds Blood Diamonds, powerful nickname, and impactful problem. This term given to the on going issue throughout the diamond industry was adopted due to the severity of unethical practices throughout the Diamond world. This gruesome nickname was given quiet literally in response to the amount of blood shed involving this industry. It is estimated that over 3.5 million human lives have been lost or displaced due to conflict diamonds in Africa alone (Global Witness). This number is already too high and will continue to rise if action is not taken. Organizations like the Greener Diamond are teaming up to spread awareness and build back a healthier lifestyle of those affected by Conflict diamonds. By getting involved in organizations like the Greener Diamond, awareness of the dangers of blood diamonds will spread, the industry little by little will become cleaned up, and the quality of life in these conflict diamond areas will begin to rise. On April 28 th Anna-Mieke Anderson the founder of The Greener Diamond will be speaking in a TED talk at the University of South Florida, by participating in such an event you could help improve the lives of thousands of lives in Africa by first just simply getting educated about blood diamonds. Most everyone has heard of blood diamonds or the conflicts in countries such as Sierra Leone. While people have heard of such problems, little has truly been done to stop them. Diamonds are everywhere. Although not everyone gets married, the chances Embry2 of you tying the knot are increasingly high. With the long lasting tradition of marriage, there is a related tradition of engagement rings. Engagement rings have always been seen as a beautiful symbol of love that a woman gets to wear for the rest of their lives. Little do many women realize is that lives have/are being lost in result of those diamonds they are wearing. It has been estimated that from 6-15% of the diamonds in trade are conflict diamonds (CNN). Steps to decrease this number have been put into action, however the effectiveness of these actions continues to lack an impact on the statistics. One of these steps taken is the Kimberly Process Certification Scheme. The Kimberly Process by definition is joint governments, industry and civil society initiative to stem the flow of conflict Process). This whole scheme was established in 2000 to address the obscure violence and flow of conflict diamonds throughout the African countries. While the scheme has good intentions, it has become apparent that flaws have left the industry to do whatever they want. Brilliant Earth, a known corresponding stakeholder within the industry claims, Kimberley failure to enact stronger controls has left the door wide open to diamond Earth). To stop the issues, it has now truly been put into the hands to stop blood diamonds all together. The Greener Diamond is a leading organization making a positive impact on the decrease of blood diamonds throughout the worlds mining industry. They live through quotes such as will only come through action, motivated by the sincere understanding of the impact of our decisions. We encourage you to investigate for yourself and make an informed decision before you make your next diamond Embry3 Greener Diamond). Small actions of everyone will create a big impact. By teaming up with organizations such as The Greener Diamond it is inevitable to see the impact each and every persons efforts make. Education is one of the major factors in creating a change, and is the number one solution to blood diamonds the Greener Diamond believes in. Many do not realize that problems do still exist, and people are still suffering because of them. By educating people about where their diamonds are coming from, they will then be more empowered to purchase wisely. It can be as simple as researching jewelers, asking the jeweler whom their providers are, or simply finding out where the diamonds you are purchasing are from. These couple of actions can improve the lives of thousands if not millions. As the spring comes to an end, so does school. With graduation approaching for many the purchasing of class rings is also in mind. With this thought churning in minds, it is fitting to hold a seminar educating how to practice the purchasing of pure diamonds for those rings. On April 28 th there will be a TED talk held at The University of South oval theatre in the Student Marshall center to spread awareness of the purchasing of conflict diamonds. Anna-Mieke Anderson, the founder of The Greener Diamond, will be the lead speaker for the event. This will be an awesome opportunity to hear first hand the stories that Anna has experienced with the people affected by the diamond industry, and embrace the change you can make just like her. The TED talk will highlight some simple steps every person can take to practice smart diamond purchasing, and how to get involved further through the Greener Diamond to first hand make a difference. Embry4 Blood Diamonds are a problem that is not disappearing on its own. With many efforts such as the Kimberly Process Certification Scheme, and other law enforcement efforts within the industry a fact has become clear, the power is with the people. The people of Africa are living with horrific conditions and are not able to speak up for them selves without the risk of getting murdered. Speak for them, make a difference. It can be as easy as attending a TED talk, or joining an organization such as the Greener Diamond. Change is what the world needs, and the first step is just getting involved. Embry5 Bibliography Armstrong, Paul. diamonds fuel CNN, www,cnn.com/2012/04/26/world/Africa/blood-diamonds/. Accessed 26 April 2017. Harris, Wilson. in http://www.worlddiamondcouncil.com/ Accessed 9 April 2017. Johnson, David. www.kimberleyprocess.com/en/about Accessed 10 April 2017. Lithim, Brock. The Greener Diamond to http://thegreenerdiamond.org/get- involved-3/. Accessed 15 April 2017. Livingston, Ellen. Earth:Flaws in the Kimberley www.brilliantearth.com/kimberley-process/. Accessed 5 April 2017.