Anderson 1 Rebekah Anderson Professor Bob Botkin ENC 1102 9 April 2017 Public schooling: The best choice for Schooling Homeschooling is a type of schooling where students are taught at home usually by their parents. This version of schooling was not a well-known option in the past, but has become a popular choice of schooling in society. Although it has become a mainstream form of learning, homeschooling is not the best option in terms of a well-being. It may not be presented as a major issue, but it should be brought to the attention of the public. This essay will discuss why kids who are homeschooled are put at a disadvantage when compared to kids who are enrolled in public schools. Both methods are very different which explains why the success rate differs among the two methods. Homeschooling should not be a popular choice of learning because of the several disadvantages that it puts students in. One main issue with this form of schooling is the lack of socialization the students receive. Socialization can be defined as learning process that involves development or changes in the sense of (Dr. Michael S.). Social interaction is necessary for the development of an individual. Interaction with others helps individuals build social skills that will help them in the real-world environment when they are looking for jobs or promoting their work. An article that talks about homeschooling and socialization states homeschooled children crave a greater degree of social interaction, and for some their opportunities for social interaction are so limited that they develop social phobias or experience extreme social (Gaither) Students who are homeschooled Anderson 2 are not around people daily, so they do not get to practice necessary social skills that children in public schools get to practice. For example, students who are homeschooled are taught by their parents, so the only people they interact with during school are their parents whereas students in public schools interact with their classmates and their teachers. Another major issue with keeping children at home for schooling is the lack of conflict that they will deal with at home. To further explain, students who are homeschooled never get out of their comfort zone because they live in the comfort of their homes. They never get to experience situations that can help them improve the way that they deal with issues. Furthermore, students who are homeschooled are confined in the same environment every day. This means that they are never required to deal with adversity because they are always stuck in the comfort of their home. Another disadvantage to the homeschooling option is the expenses. Homeschooling is very expensive and can be stressful for parents to facilitate. Books must be purchased and other school tools are required as well. It is also stressful for the parents because they have to create their own curriculum or find a school curriculum that moves forward at the correct pace for their kids. They have to be sure that this curriculum will not put the kids behind in their timeline to graduate at the correct time. Homeschooling is not the best option for schooling because it does not teach kids how to navigate through real world situations. Public schooling has been a popular choice of schooling throughout time. It is the most popular version of learning because it provides benefits that homeschooling cannot. As mentioned before, homeschooling does not create many opportunities for students to socialize. Public schooling enforces a strong foundation for socialization. This is possible because a typical public high school holds around 700 students on average (U.S Department of Education). These students are able to interact with many different individuals which helps develop social skills. Anderson 3 Also, this type of schooling also develops leadership skills which are important when looking for a job. Leadership skills are developed through the use of group work. In group work, students collaborate and learn how to work with each other in order to create a presentable project. Students who attend public school are required to get out of their comfort zone every day at school because they have to communicate with others, deal with individuals they might not like, and collaborate with their peers. They are also encouraged to step up and become important leaders in their schools through organizations such as Student Government and Student Council. By getting out of their comfort zone, they can develop leadership skills that are important. Another major advantage that students enrolled in public schools have over students who are homeschooled is gaining experiences that deal with adversity. Individuals who attend public schools will be better prepared for real world situations because they experience situations such as bullying, having to work with groups, and dealing with people they do not like. Students who are homeschooled never experience bullying or any sort of conflict, so they will not be prepared for conflict when they are faced with it. Public schools stand out when compared to home schools because education is taught in a classroom setting. Students who are homeschooled tend to be less motivated in their studies because there is no competition. A classroom setting creates competition among students which in turn persuades the students to strive for success. Another benefit to public schooling is that it is less expensive when compared to homeschooling. The school itself is free as well as the books provided to the students. Also, for low income families, public schools provide them with free lunch. This option is less stressful for the parents because a school curriculum is already organized and guidance counselors help make sure that students are on track to graduate on time. Guidance counselors arrange schedules for students and help Anderson 4 answer questions regarding their future. Public schooling is the best option for schooling because it teaches individuals many skills that are beneficial to future success. Putting kids into home schools is an issue because it prevents them from learning certain skills that are important for the future. Homeschooling needs to change its methods of teaching in order to become a better option of schooling. One way this version of schooling can become a better option is through the use of a classroom setting. Students need to be in a classroom environment so that their brains are triggered to be motivated as well as experience a different kind of environment rather than their house setting. Another way that schools that take place in homes can improve in their methods is through better facilitated social interactions. Field trips should be taken more often and interactions with other students should be used in instruction. Group work and projects should also be included in teachings so that individuals who are homeschooled are able to develop the leadership and social skills that group work provides. Better facilitated social interactions can help homeschooled students be more motivated in their school work and less lonely. Overall, improvements must be done to homeschooling organizations so that they can become a better option for schooling. Educational systems are important in the development of younger generations. Without organized systems, younger generations would not be able to fill in the shoes of older generations. This essay is a part of the multimodal argument because it further discusses the reasons that were listed in the video on why public schooling is a good choice while homeschooling is not. Public schooling is the best option because it facilitates organized learning activities that aid in the development of individuals. The skills that are developed will lead to success in real world situations. Anderson 5 Work Cited Dr. Michael S. What Is  The Socjourn. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Homeschooling &  Coalition for Responsible Home Education. N.p., 12 Mar. 2014. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. National Home Education Research  Research Facts on Homeschooling Research. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Table 5. - Average Public School Size (mean Number of Students per School), by Instructional Level and by State: Overview of Public Elementary and Secondary Schools and Districts: School Year 1999-2000. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017.