Hineman 1 Gabriel Hineman Spencer Bennington ENC 1102 4/27/2017 Eddie Eagle to the Rescue In the world of the here and now, firearm ownership is prevalent across the globe with the United States near the top of the list; to the Geneva-based Small Arms Survey the leading source of international public information about firearms the U.S. has the best-armed civilian population in the world, with an estimated 270 million total To increase public awareness, while also minimizing risks associated from guns falling into the hands of children, concerned citizens are encouraged to reach out to their local to push for providing comprehensive firearm education at the school level by hosting the Eddie Eagle Program. The phrase takes a applies in the sense that we must all unite as a community to minimize the potential risks if/when a child comes in contact with a weapon, whether one is a parent or not. Possession and ownership of firearms in the United States of America has many benefits. If an armed intruder was attempting to break into a home, the presence of a properly armed and educated homeowner increases the chance that those in residence would safely be able to defend themselves. In the realm of protecting oneself with a firearm, rather quite likely; are used 2.5 million times a year in self-defense. Law-abiding citizens use guns to defend themselves against criminals as many as 2.5 million times every year -- or about 6,850 times a day. This means that each year, firearms are used more than 80 times more often to protect the lives of Hineman 2 honest citizens than to take (Kirby). Not only are they tools wielded for protection and safety, firearms are major tools used by hunters for sport as well as to provide a food source for their families. The rash of public assaults make a strong argument for concealed carry as this provides the innocent civilian a means of protecting oneself in the event they become under attack or find themselves in the presence of someone who threatens bodily harm while in public. Accordingly, guns may not always be safely secured in a private residence. Many states do have legislation supporting concealed carry by civilians within their borders resulting in guns being among the public on a day to day basis. This increases the risk that a child may incidentally come in contact with a gun which could lead to an accident with deadly repercussions. While many agree there are numerous benefits to possessing an easily accessible gun within the confines of personal abodes there are inherent dangers that be ignored. a great possibility that young children residing within the home, or even just visiting, may stumble upon the firearm and without the proper education may handle it to devastating consequences; information collected by the Gun Violence Archive, a nonpartisan research group, news reports and public sources, the media outlets spent six months analyzing the circumstances of every death and injury from accidental shootings involving children ages 17 and younger from Jan. 1, 2014, to June 30 of this year - more than 1,000 incidents in (AP). Some may consider this statistic a negligible and insignificant number with no cause for critical concern, however, it is one a responsible populus cannot dismiss. In alone there were only 265 fatal airplane accidents, meaning that there were 4 times as many shooting accidents that involved children than fatal airplane deaths. Considering the number of accidental firearm deaths of children occurring every year it may be reasonable to assume that gun ownership is on the rise but alas it Hineman 3 is not so; has found that the number of people who say they have a gun in their home is at an all time low hovering around 30 percent, from a high of 50 percent in the Keep in mind that with more guns in the household, the higher the likelihood that a child might accidentally get their hands on one of them. There is actually a viable solution to prevent, or at the very least reduce, the number of accidental child related firearm deaths and it comes in the form of a program called Eddie Eagle. Eddie Eagle has been around for nearly thirty years. It in 1988 with one mission: teach children four simple, easy to remember steps so they know what to do if they ever come across a (NRA). Instead of just teaching children that guns are good/bad, the program is tailored to provide children with basic, understandable steps for them to follow should they come in contact with a firearm. Many youngsters have access to play guns, whether it be as innocent as a water squirt gun, nerf gun, or virtual reality type that they use in the course of a video game. essential that a crystal clear distinction be made in their young minds between those they may utilize in the course of play in a game of cowboys and indians, for example, and one that can cause true death and destruction. For the general public when gun safety and education courses are mentioned many erroneously believe they are exclusively geared towards adults planning on handling them, whether for protection or sport. This assumption would be wrong! While a majority of gun safety courses are designed primarily for adults and those of age to handle guns, courses like the Eddie Eagle program should become more mainstay. These programs play an important role in keeping our children safe when fully utilized. Gun safety programs specifically geared to educate children about the dangers of firearms and the potential consequences for handling them need to Hineman 4 be promoted so that all children have access. It is faulty reasoning to assume that only children who live in households that have guns need to be educated. The teaching style is based on learning the information from Eddie Eagle and his group of friends. During the course children participate in various activities such as answering questions based on what they have learned from watching the shows, or just simple coloring exercises cementing what learned. The format is designed to keep the children engaged and entertained all while ingraining the lessons that they are learning into their young malleable brains. Those who attend this program are better prepared to know what steps to take should they encounter a firearm, particularly in the absence of an adult. Overall gun accidents/deaths involving children are a prevalent if not growing epidemic in the United States that requires the focus of the American people. To increase public awareness about the dangers of children handling guns and promote the education of firearm safety for children, advocacy by those who are aware of the issue is a must. Concerned citizens are encouraged to visit local school to educate them to the necessity of making available the Eddie Eagle Program. Those wanting to learn more and see in more detail how beneficial the program is can do so by visiting the NRA website In areas where the local fail to see the importance or are unable to bring it to their community, Eddie Eagle has another option via accessing an online program that all children can complete from the comfort of home. This is a workable option for all parents realizing the importance of this safety program in the absence of school and/or community support. In the absence of any formal program imperative, at the very minimum, that the core message of the program: STOP, Hineman 5 TOUCH, RUN AWAY, AND TELL A GROWN UP, is instilled in all youth should they ever come in contact with a real firearm. Hineman 6 Works Cited: Program, Eddie Eagle Eddie Eagle  Explore Eddie National Rifle Association, n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Morgenstern, Madeleine. How Many People Own Guns in America? And Is Gun Ownership Actually  TheBlaze, 19 Mar. 2013. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. AP. A Lot More Kids Killed in Gun Accidents than Says, Study  CBS Interactive, 14 Oct. 2016. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Kirby, Brendan. Fact Sheet: Guns Save  Gun Owners of America, n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017.  Aviation: Data &  Transportation Safety Board NTSB, 2014. Web. 27 Apr. 2017.