Dec 1 Khristian Dec Ms. Tisdale ENC 1101 03/24/2017 The Cure is Worse than the Disease Before 1984, the legal drinking age was 18 years old. In 1984 it was changed by an organization called MADD, which stands for Mothers against drunk driving. MADD argued to raise the minimum drinking age from 18 to 21 to reduce drunk driving. By 1985, every state had raised the legal drinking age to 21.As time has passed the argument for MADD has stayed the same, to reduce drunk driving fatalities. But with the advancement of science, technology and new information, the argument to lower the drinking age back down to 18 has changed over time. Originally the argument was that the age of 18, change is big in a life. Now officially adults, teens become legally responsible for themselves. They are free to make adult decisions, able to vote, compelled to be socially independent, and urged to live on their own and pay their own bills. But they buy a (Roanoke 2004). Although this was one of the first arguments to be published, it is still used today. However, because of our constantly evolving field in science and technology there are more researchers producing and publishing advanced studies. Studies that use technology we have available in the early like the development of the frontal lobe, fake ID sales, or even binge drinking statistics. The argument now is nothing like the argument back then. Barnhill states appears to be no correlation between the minimum age and drunk-driving fatalities. In fact, the US data does not correlate with that of Europe, where Dec 2 fatalities have been decreasing since 1982, although the minimum drinking age is (2014). What research is stating is that in countries where the minimum drinking age is lower than the U.S. (normally around 16-18) there are less drunk driving accidents. This is because alcohol is introduced to teens at a younger age therefor by the time they are ready to drive they are already aware of the effects of alcohol and what it has on a ability to drive. He mentions Europe, an example would be Italy, where the minimum drinking age is 15. Barnhill proves that since alcohol is introduced to teens at a younger age than the US (6 years to be exact) this reduces the number of drunk driving incidents due to the fact that kids in Italy are better aware of the effects of alcohol on the human body (legally). CDC [Centers for Disease reported that alcohol is responsible for more than 4,300 deaths annually among underage youth. The CDC also found that young people between the ages of 12 and 20 drink 11 percent of all the alcohol consumed in the U.S., and more than 90 percent of this alcohol is consumed during binge (Cary 2014). studies are arguing that because of the raise in the legal drinking age, more kids are dying due to alcohol. 1,825 college students between the ages of 18 and 24 die from alcohol-related unintentional injuries [this includes binge (NIH.gov 2015). When this law was put in place back then, MADD unknowingly caused an increase in binge drinking and fake ID sales to sky rocket (Cary 2014). was stampeded into this puritanical law by Mothers Against Drunk Driving, who with all good intentions were wrongly intruding into an area of personal choice exactly as did the hymn-singing 19th century temperance crusaders, typified by Carrie Nation smashing beer barrels with her hatchet. Temperance fanaticism eventually triumphed and gave us 14 years of Prohibition. That in turn spawned the crime syndicates Dec 3 for booze smuggling, laying the groundwork for global drug trade. Thanks a lot, (Paglia 2014). argument is that MADD and the others who helped to pass this law back then know that this would be the outcome today. saying this law was rushed and fully thought through. rational part of a brain fully developed and be until age 25 or so. [Your frontal lobe or prefrontal cortex is what allows adults (people who are 25 years old or Respond to situations with good judgement and an awareness of long term consequences. Teens process information with the amygdala. This is the emotional part [of the (Holloway 2017). research shows that the difference between the legal drinking age being 18 or 21 is no difference at all, because either way your frontal lobe still fully developed, so either way your ability to make decisions sober or not is still impaired. The argument that is in favor of lowering the drinking age has changed and will continue to change over time due to the advancement in science, technology, and new information. While argument has not changed, and will never change because their only reason as to why they raised the drinking age was to reduce drunk driving fatalities. Dec 4 Works Cited Barnhill, John H. Age Salem Press Encyclopedia, January,2014. Cary, Mary K. to Lower the Drinking U.S. News Digital Weekly, vol. 6, May2014, p. Holloway, Beth RN. University of Rochester, Paglia, Camille. The Drinking Age Is Past Its  Time. Time, 23 Apr. 2014. Web. 11 Dec. the legal drinking age be lowered? Roanoke times, vol. 29, sept. 2004.