Bachkaniwala 1 Shivam Bachkaniwala Ashley Tisdale ENC 1101 March 5, 2017 Climate change and the effects of global warming Climate change is the phenomenon in which surface temperature increases to dangerous levels resulting in the disruption of climate. It has been a topic of great controversy since the past decade. Although scientific consensus about the existence of global warming, there are still some people who have different theories to prove that climate change is a hoax despite of strong contrary evidence. No scientific body disagrees with the fact that global warming is the result of excess emission of greenhouse gases by the humans. Most of the dispute is being perpetuated in the media, but in the scientific world these issues are considered resolved. To understand the whole scenario, we need to study the past ten years of changing views on climate change. The conversation in 2006 was nothing like it is today. It was very different than the doomsday scenario. They involve growing baby corals or using solar power on a large scale to reduce pollution. People sometimes had polarized discussions but the majority aware that an actual scientific body devoted to studying climate change. That being said, the media devoted little coverage to global warming. Also, there was no sense of urgency among people as the main objective of media was just to spread awareness. Fast forward to 2008, people still actually care about the topic even though there was photographic evidence to support most of the theories. In the list of challenges to confront, global warming was still at the bottom. In 2012, the conversation had grown out of just Bachkaniwala 2 spreading awareness and started to emphasize the severity of the situation and the need for action in order to avert a major crisis. Increase in the intensity of droughts and floods were used as examples to convince the people that global warming is a real threat. Between 2012 and now, a growing sense of urgency and fear, and with that comes the call for action as people finally acknowledge the gravity of the situation. Politics played a huge role in subduing the matter and denying it. Climate change is often the subject of politically motivated moves to downplay this issue, also labelled by the scientific body as Most of the people who advocate these attempts are conservatives. Climate denialism is the unwarranted dismissal of the scientific evidence about climate change and the rate at which it is intensifying. Climate change denial can also be insinuated, where people reconcile with the science but fail to translate this acceptance into action. Many politicians use false rhetoric to undermine the public support which is then perpetuated with the help of conservative media and bloggers who use phrases like in order to rationalize their actions. Of the countries, climate change denial is practiced most extensively in the United States of America. Organized campaigning against global warming is accompanied with support and funding from various oil giants to oppose carbon emission regulations. This has gotten even worse since the election of the new president of United States, Donald Trump. He believes that climate change is a hoax ignoring all the scientific evidence. A survey also found out that only fifteen percent of conservatives believe that global warming is a consequence of injudicious use of fossil fuels compared to seventy five percent of liberal democrats. Trump also called for an increase in the use of coal and aims to withdraw the United States from a landmark agreement meant to control and enforce regulations on Bachkaniwala 3 greenhouse emissions. He thinks the concept of global warming was created by the Chinese in order to compete with US manufacturers. Moreover, Donald Trump has been very unpredictable about this issue as sometime he thinks climate change is real and sometimes not. But slowly the public has started to believe that climate is the result of human actions and so they are opposed to Donald views on climate change. To conclude, I think that despite all the political efforts to downplay the issue, the conservation has changed from if climate change is real to how can we stop this phenomenon. Work cited: 1. Botkin, Daniel B., et al. Forecasting the effects of global warming on  Bioscience 57.3 (2007): 227-236. 2. Costello, Anthony, et al. Managing the health effects of climate  The Lancet 373.9676 (2009): 1693-1733. 3. Piao, Shilong, et al. The impacts of climate change on water resources and agriculture in  Nature 467.7311 (2010): 43-51. 4. Hughes, Terry P., et al. Climate change, human impacts, and the resilience of coral  science 301.5635 (2003): 929-933.