1 Alexis Usha Alexis Denis Course Number 16 April 2017 We can make a change There is no doubt genetically modified food is becoming more and more prominent in our food chain. But what exactly is a GMO? GMO is the outcome of geneticist manipulating the genes from the DNA of one kind of animal and artificially inserting that same gene into another unrelated animal. And this is by using gene technology in a way that does not occur naturally through mating and/or natural recombination. Genetically modified organisms are very unnatural. GMO is created by the insertion of one or more functional genes from different species into the genome of an organism. This technique is used to produce new genetic combinations that are of value to science, medicine, agriculture and industry, and it has been used with several species of plants, animals, fungi and (Milavec, 2014). In the United States, an average of 75% of our food consist of genetically modified organisms. For example, 80% of corn distributed in the United States is GMO. 93% of the soy that Americans ingest is GMO, and soy is added to various chemically altered foods. 90%of Canola produced in the USA is genetically modified. Canola is a vital seed that is used to produce cooking oil. Most of the necessary ingredients that we use every day are genetically modified. As Americans, freedom of consumption should be Alexis 2 given no matter what. Monsanto, in my opinion lacks transparency. The company practically throws GMOs to us and expect us not question.(Huffington,2017) At the same time, the United States has the 7 th highest cancer rate in the world. There is no doubt that genetically modified foods have contributed to the spike in cancer rates. And the argument against GMO became even stronger. New studies by Alison Van Eenennamen (a trusted geneticist) show that the manipulation of the genetic sequence of organisms can cause an increase in toxins and allergenic molecules. The rise in toxins overtime can cause cancer throughout the population. The alteration of genes can also devalue the plant or food itself, stripping away its natural nutrients. It is also feared that if genetically modified foods are released in the wild genetic contamination will occur. The contamination can lead to a permanent change in the genetic makeup of various organisms.( Cordeiro,2017) When it comes to there are two viewpoints. One side demands mandatory labeling of while the other side does not find the action of labeling is necessary. There is a continued battle in federal court about this issues. In Congress, the House and Senate appear split over whether such labeling should be a state or federal issue. More attention is brought upon the debate and action is starting to take place. In 2013, for example, Whole Foods announced that by 2018, all products in its U.S. and Canadian stores must be labeled if they contain genetically modified organisms. (Beecher, C, 2016). While the organization of Monsanto believes that GMO foods promote effective productivity of produce, because GMOs can be altered in genetic material to bring about Alexis 3 favorable traits in the produce; Label GMO Florida opposes GMO productivity due to the fact that GMO products have not been thoroughly investigated to determine any trace of prolonged side effects of GMO foods when ingested into the human body. Label GMO urges that companies at least label when the product has GMO components within it. To satisfy the objective of both groups GMO foods should still be administered but labeled on each product that does contain GMO substances. Those companies that label efficiently would get higher rating, than those that do not. We may think that the term GMO is a new concept, yet the introduction of genetically modified foods and organisms started in the Advance research was conducted to deepen the understanding of genetically modified products throughout the years. Now, as American consumers we are faced with the fact that are incorporated into most our foods. The question is, we have the right to choose whether we want to ingest foods that contain altered genomes. Label GMO Florida made it their ultimate goal to ensuring Floridians have the Right to  and be well informed on what they feed their family. Label GMO, wants to make sure we are allowed to vote on complete disclosure of food whether it is  or genetically engineered in 2014. Monsanto must demonstrate complete transparency about each product so that we can make the right decision on the food we want to eat. This organization also informs consumer on new updates and developments of genetically modified foods/organisms Monsanto is an organization claims that it employs more than 20,000 people, which ultimately helping the us economy in providing jobs. These employees main goal is to alternate and quicker methods of cultivating crops providing more crops to the world. The organization is Alexis 4 highly extensive, branching out in 67 other countries around the world. Monsanto main task is to provide genetically modified seed of fruits, veggies, and cotton to field growers (agriculturist) to develop crops with more sustainability and strength. An abundant amount of many was spent towards research to grow more dependable and efficient crops. We employ and provide data to help farmers, both large and small, make more informed decisions on their farms. (Monsanto,2017). Monsanto is also very charitable, contributed about 50 million to help those in need. http://www.vitahealthstores.ca/2014/04/canada-and-gmos-where-in-the-world-do-we- stand/ Alexis 5 As shown above sixty-four countries have banned or request labeling on genetically modified organisms. Obviously, the ban is not at random, there is an evident concern on the effects of genetically modifying organisms. America must pay attention to the warning signs before it is too late. While the organization of Monsanto believes that GMO foods promote effective productivity of produce, because GMOs can be altered in genetic material to bring about favorable traits in the produce; Label GMO Florida opposes GMO productivity due to the fact that GMO products have not been thoroughly investigated to determine any trace of prolonged side effects of GMO foods when ingested into the human body. Label GMO urges that companies at least label when the product has GMO components within it. Alexis 6 http://gmo.leadstories.com/096347-gmo-crop-cultivation-is-now-banned-in-38-countries- --including-many-in-the-eu-africa-asia-and-the-am.html Something needs to be done. Monsanto, a prominent company that provides the leading source of genetically modifies food, could care less about the long-term effects that these foods can have on human beings. It is our job to ensure that they properly label the product, and give consumer freedom of choice. As an individual it may be hard to fight Monsanto, but as an American we can fight for freedom of consumption and demand complete transparency from Monsanto. Simply choosing to purchasing organic products, can make a huge difference. Boycotting unlabeled products will definitely urge them to change their ways. Also, getting informed on labeling terminology, meaning research on the substances that they name on the labels and knowing where they derive. One step to destroy Monsanto, is to shop exclusively Farmers market. Their products are locally grown with no chemicals. Just go on their website, find a Market near you, and purchase from there. As productive members of this democratic society, be aware of any petitions that promotes labeling of genetically modified organisms. Let us show Monsanto, that we can put them out of business if they continue to lack transparency. Alexis 7 Alexis 8 Work cited BuiltLean. 7 Most Common Genetically Modified  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 03 Dec. 2013. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. HEMPHILL, T. A., & BANERJEE, S. (2014). Mandatory Food Labeling for GMOs. Regulation, 37(4), 7-10. Milavec, M., Dobnik, D., Yang, L., Zhang, D., Gruden, K., & J. (2014). GMO quantification: valuable experience and insights for the future. Cordeiro, Brittany. Do GMOs Cause Cancer? MD Anderson Cancer Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. CRIIGEN Study Links GM Maize and Roundup to Premature Death and  Sustainable Pulse. Sustainable Pulse, 01 Mar. 2013. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. Blake, C. (2015). Day a logical opportunity to discuss GMO benefits. Western Farm Press, 37(21), 4. Drott, L., Jochum, L., Lange, F., Skierka, I., Vach, J., & van Asselt, M. B. (2013). Accountability and risk governance: a scenarion informed reflection on European regulation of GMOs. Journal Of Risk Research, 16(9), HEMPHILL, T. A., & BANERJEE, S. (2014). Mandatory Food Labeling for GMOs. Regulation, 37(4), 7-10. Milavec, M., Dobnik, D., Yang, L., Zhang, D., Gruden, K., & J. (2014). GMO quantification: valuable experience and insights for the future. Analytical & Bioanalytical Chemistry, 406(26), 6485-6497 Alexis 9 Paskalev, V. (2015). GMO Regulation in Europe: Undue Delegation, Abdication or Design Flaw?European Journal Of Risk Regulation, 6(4), 573-578. Label GMO  Label GMO Florida. N.p., 12 Nov. 2013. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. Latest Headlines  Monsanto Company. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Mar. 2017.