Miller 1 Brandon Miller Prof. Basil Composition II 30 April 2017 USF Students for US Students do you think we build a future? I think we build it by investing in our kids and investing in - Warren In a time where a college degree in the United States seems to be the difference between getting a job or winding up unemployed, the issue of paying for college could not be more relevant. As of 2016, a record setting 20.5 million students attended an American college or university (US department of Education). But as the attendance rates continue to rise, so to do the costs. As a public, American university, everyone in the USF community should be concerned with the cost of education. The goal of this paper is to educate, engage, and empower the USF community, particularly the USF students, with the hopes that they will take action on this issue. In order to evoke positive changes that result in more affordable educational opportunities, the USF students must work with elected officials to generate political support towards the creation of a more affordable college education. Politicians such as Bernie Sanders, the and Elizabeth Warren are politicians that have advocated for the rights of students in the past and represent potential partners. Their recent efforts have paved the way for even further change. By educating students on the current issues regarding college expenses, they will be able to understand the need for improvement and seek to create a more effective system than the one currently in place. College free (and probably will never be free despite various Miller 2 political efforts) but it can be made more affordable/less expensive. In order to implement a revised financial aid policy that will achieve this goal, USF students must become activists. The type of drastic social changes needed to produce nationwide cost reductions requires maximum effort. Students efforts must include, but go beyond petitions. By working with politicians, protesting, and creating a movement, USF students can unite with US students to become their own greatest advocates. The first step in the movement-making process requires education and identification of the current flaws or inadequacies within the current financial aid system. In order to fully understand the expenses associated with college, students must be educated on the costs of college attendance both nationwide and at USF. They should also be aware of alternative systems that exist in other countries. By comparing these figures (nationwide costs vs. USF costs vs. World Costs), one gets an accurate picture of the areas where college aid succeeds and where it fails. As of 2016, the average overall costs of attending a 4 year public institution were $9,410 for in-state and $23,893 for out-of-state (College Board). Compared to USF, those figures are quite low. For a student who attended USF in the Fall of 2016, the estimated overall in-state cost was $21,410 and the estimated overall out-of-state cost was $32,324 (College Board). What do these statistics indicate about USF? That students who attend USF in-state and out of state are paying roughly $12,000 and $8,431 more than the national average, respectively (College Board). This highlights a critical area in which the US system of financial aid must improve. The average US student will graduate with an estimated $25,000 worth of debt upon completion of a 4 year degree (Student Aid Alliance). With this idea in mind, an overview of financial aid distribution must be conducted. This will provide students with important Miller 3 information in regards to the types of money being distributed, as well as the amount. When looking at how USF distributes money to its students, it is important to note that 54% is given as scholarship or need based loans and the other 46% is given as loans/work study jobs (College Board). To put it simply, USF gives out 54% of its total funds as free money to its students and the other 46% is either paid as interest or earned through a work study program. The average amount given to USF students in the form of scholarships/grants (aka free money) is roughly $9,183 (College Board). This is much higher than the national average. The average amount of college scholarships/grant money given by public 4 year institutions is $6,720. means that USF gives roughly $2,463 more in scholarships/grant money than the average 4 year public institution (College Board). Upon review of the USF financial aid system, two conclusions can be stated. One, the overall cost of attending USF is much higher than the nationwide average. Two, USF gives out more aid in the form of free money than the national average. But since lowering college costs is a nationwide issue, comparing college costs in the United States to similar countries throughout the world proves beneficial. By educating students on college cost by country, a more specific call to action can be formed. Many are probably wondering where the US ranks in regards to college costs worldwide. According to business insider, the US has the sixth most expensive college costs of any country. Student loan debt in the united states has totalled roughly 1.2 trillion dollars as of 2014 and is the highest form of consumer debt in the country (Value Colleges). Graduate levels have also declined. In 1990, the us ranked number one in the world in four year degrees among 25-34 year olds. Today, the rank has fallen to 12th (Value Colleges). Why? to higher education and Miller 4 affordability are two of the main reasons for that (Value Colleges). College costs have risen exponentially since 1985. From 1985 to 2014, private four year college costs have risen $18,515 and in state public college costs have risen 6329 (Value Colleges). Because of this inaccessibility, students have been forced to borrow. An estimated two thirds of American college students graduate with debt. The class of 2014 graduated with $33,000 dollars worth of debt with over 7 million borrowers in default (Value Colleges). The above-mentioned statistics reflect the notion that the college education in the United States is an economically exclusive opportunity reserved for the elite. But how can the United States be charging excessive amounts for education when 40 countries around the world offer free post-secondary education, including: Argentina, Denmark, Greece, Kenya, Morocco, Egypt, Uruguay, Scotland and (Staff)? The most ideal system appears to be germany, who at one time, made tuition fees illegal. They put their 2.4 million students through school for free by funding the entire cost (Staff). Their willingness to accept taxes is reason. But in the united states this is improbable, however reductions in price can occur. As mentioned previously in this paper, college costs were not as expensive in the past as they are now. Pell Grants used to cover over three quarters of the cost, but now covers barely a third (Staff). Though free education will likely not occur at the four year level for sometime, if at all, politicians and various states have begun to create free community college. In 2016, Barack Obama introduced a budget proposal for 2017 that would allow many students in the US to attend college without tuition and curriculum fees. His proposed plan states that the federal Government would cover 75% of the costs and the participating states would cover the remaining 25% (Education Advisory Board). The program would also provides $2.5 billion tax-credits to business as an incentive to hire Miller 5 graduates (Education Advisory Board). In 2014, Tennessee was the first state to implement a system of free community college, but Minnesota, Oregon, Kentucky, and most recently New York, have followed suit. Also, ten other states have introduced legislation (Hutlin). With established political precedence, the audience is now effectively educated, empowered, and can thus, take action. Creating a proper call to action entails reform that addresses the identified issues. Since many people in the United States want to, and will, attend college, creating a more affordable experience will benefit USF students and students nationwide, as well as colleges. In doing so, more students will be able to attend USF and colleges throughout the country. This will help colleges make more money with increased attendance. To establish a less economically exclusive education system, this will require the federal and state governments to reinvest in education, particularly Pell Grants. This will require students to work with political figures who advocate for reduced cost education, such as Barack Obama. In times of social injustice, the most powerful acts are passive resistance movements that call for change. Look at Martin Luther King and the Civil Rights Movement. In order to obtain Civil Rights for a neglected group of people, Blacks, King transformed from an advocate to an activist. He petitioned, he protested, and he empowered people across the nation. Similar action will be need to produce serious change in the US college aid system. With so many students unable to attend college due to the costs, an epidemic has been created that needs to be addressed. The USF community needs to do its part to properly address the issue associated with the US system of financial aid. The main issue is the overall costs, due to lack of funding. The USF students must work together with politicians to form a solution. As advocates for themselves and activists for education, students will have many options when Miller 6 attempting to generate social support for the issue. have many options including signing a petition, forming a protest, staging a rally, etc. But they must go beyond menial effort. The greatest forms of social progress, such as social rights, have come from movements aimed at improving an important quality of life. United States students have a right to reduced education. Miller 7 Works Cited About  Aid 21 Jan. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Access and Affordability: USA vs. the Colleges. Colleges. 2017.Web. 29 April 2017. College Board. 2017. Web. 16 April 2017 Hultin, Suzanne. Community Conference of State Legislatures. 2017. Web. 17 April 2017. National Postsecondary Student  Postsecondary Student Aid Study - US Department of Education, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Doubles Advisory EAB. 11 February 2016. Web. 14 April 2017. Staff, Attn. Does Germany Afford Free ATTN. 27 March 2015. Web. 28 April 2017.