Greathouse 1 Caroline Greathouse Dennis Composition 2 Section 3 30 April 2017 Inadequate Sexual Health Education in the United States According to the Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States, nearly 20 million people have a sexually transmitted disease (STD). Despite this, nearly 50% of adults younger than 45 years of age were never tested for any STD besides HIV/AIDS (SIECUS). These alarming statistics suggest that the information regarding and access to sexual health in the United States is unbalanced. This imbalance is a serious problem facing our youth and requires immediate action. Solving this complex issue will take a lot of work but there are many simple ways to help. Start by educating yourself on safe sex practices. Next, support a comprehensive sexual health education group, such as Planned Parenthood or Advocates for Youth. You can support them through volunteering, advocating, or donations. Any step taken towards comprehensive sexual health education is a positive one, no matter how small. In 2010, William Jeffries and his peers analyzed abstinence-only education compared to comprehensive sexual health education. One of the major roadblocks to establishing comprehensive curriculum is the federal government. After 1996, a standard of sexual education was attempted with passage of Section 510 of Title V of the Social Security Act mandated that the US Government fund state-level abstinence-only-until-marriage education (AOE) in public (Jeffries et al). Schools get past this by not accepting the funding that the government provides for these programs. However, this so-called standard is a lie. The Greathouse 2 infographic below depicts the various standards of sex education and the regional trends of those standards (Peck). In each of the more than 20 grey colored states, there is no mandated sexual education program, despite the federally funded program detailed in Section 510 of the Social Security Act. The inconsistent education methods across the United States are appalling. Our children simply are not given access to the resources and information needed to make safe, healthy choices. This phenomenon is horrifying and must be stopped. As further proof of the improper sexual health education in the United States, the chart shown below from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows the large number of new STD cases in youths in recent years. Greathouse 3 Over a million new cases of chlamydia alone were reported from 2012, with 70% of those cases being from youth aged 15-24. This graph shows that a majority of students in the United States are not practicing safe sex. Unless we want more children to become ill with gonorrhea, HIV/AIDS, chlamydia, syphilis, herpes, or any other sexually transmitted infections, then we must improve the sexual health education standards. Otherwise, the rate of infection and death from sexually transmitted infections will continue to rise. The chart below visualizes the rising rates of infection of three common sexually transmitted infections in Florida. Since 2003, the infection rate has been rising dramatically. This sickening trend will continue unless we find an alternative approach to teaching our children to protect themselves and their partner(s). Greathouse 4 So, what does comprehensive sexual health education teach? SIECUS defines comprehensive education as age-appropriate, medically accurate information on a broad set of topics related to sexuality including human development, relationships, decision making, abstinence, contraception, and disease A curriculum that covers all of these topics is what it takes to improve the plague of disease on our youth. The sexual health education curriculum needs to be complete and comprehensive. An incomplete, abstinence-only pathway sets youths up for failure when they do engage in sexual activity, which almost all youth do. According to Advocates for Youth, 95% of people have sex before they are married (Advocates for Youth). Instead of trying to convince more teens to wait for marriage, we need to properly educate them on safe sex practices. Clearly, the current state of sexual health education in the United States is flawed. However, it can easily be improved with your help. The most important step is to educate Greathouse 5 yourself on safe sex practices and utilize them in your life. With the Internet, it is easy to find accurate information on this. Websites like http://www.advocatesforyouth.org/topics-and-issues or https://www.plannedparenthood.org/learn contain accurate information regarding numerous topics. In addition to this, make sure your friends and family are also informed and aware of the risks as well as how to employ the necessary precautions. Next, you can also join Advocates for Youth. By going on their website www.advocatesforyouth.org/getinvolved you can see all the different ways to participate in this wonderful organization. For youth specifically, Advocates for Youth has created a social media site called Amplify, which has posts and information from teens who are passionate about advocating sexual and reproductive health. Becoming a member on this site is an excellent way to stay informed, hear testimonials, and learn about events in your area. If you want to actively volunteer with the organization, their Facebook and Twitter page has all the information. The advocates put out calls for volunteers with details regarding each role for events, such as condom drives on college campuses. Condom drives are especially helpful, because according to the Guttmacher Institute, sexually experienced teens (43% of males and 57% of females) do not receive formal instruction about contraception before they first have sex; fewer received instruction about where to get birth control (31% males, 46% Raising awareness and educating as many people as possible are the most important ways to combat the ignorance plaguing the United States. Advocate for best feature is how accessible they are to young people of any age. Supporting their mission and the health of your peers is the easiest it has ever been. Act now and protect a life from being ruined by sheer ignorance. Greathouse 6 Works Cited Advocates for Youth. Advocatesforyouth.org. N.p., 2008. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. American Sources of Sexual Health  Guttmacher Institute. N.p., 01 Apr. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Ascend. Sexual Risk Avoidance Works. Publication. Washington, D.C: Ascend, 2016. Print. Chastity  Chastity Project. Stewardship, 2015. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. The Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. Sexual Health of Adolescents and Young Adults in the United  The Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. The Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, 20 Aug. 2014. Web. 8 Feb. 2017.  We Ascend. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://weascend.org/>. Huffington Post. Florida STD Rates: Best And Worst Counties For Gonorrhea, Chlamydia And Syphilis  Huffington Post. Huffinton Post, 29 Apr. 2013. Web. 25 Apr. 2017. Jeffries, William L., IV, Brian Dodge, Frank C. Bandiera, and Michael Reece. Beyond abstinence-only: relationships between abstinence education and comprehensive topic  Sex Education 10.10 (May 2010): 171-85. EBSCO . Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Lerner, Justin E., and Robert L. Hawkings. Welfare, Liberty, and Security for All? U.S. Sex Education Policy and the 1996 Title V Section 510 of the Social Security  Archives of Sexual Behavior 45.5 (July 2016): 1027-028. EBSCO. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. NAEA - National Abstinence Education  NAEA - National Abstinence Education Association - FAQs. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.abstinenceassociation.org/faqs/index.html>. Greathouse 7 Planned Parenthood. Planned Parenthood Federation of America Inc., 2017. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Peck, Adam, and Rebecca Leber. States with the Highest Teen Pregnancy Rates Lack Adequate Sex Ed  ThinkProgress. ThinkProgress, 1 Mar. 2013. Web. 8 Feb. 2017. Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States. Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States, n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://www.siecus.org/index.cfm>. Social Security Administration. Compilation of the Social Security  Social Security Administration. Social Security Administration, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.