Name: Shuoyuan Zhang Instructor: Adam Carter ENC1102 Reduce eating meat is better for body Most of people know eating a lot of meat is bad for body. But in our planet, there are still many people consume a lot of meat everyday. From Bard article, right now each Chinese consumes 170 grams meat every day.(Bard) That number is almost triple than the recommended number of daily meat consume of Chinese food diet guide. That guide advises Chinese people to eat 45-70 grams of meat. But American people eat more meat than Chinese, like each American eat 251 grams meat including pork, beef, and chicken per day. In addition, Compared with current prediction, this number will increase in the future decades. In general, people who eating more meat would became fat quickly, and we all know that obesity may make some other problems of body, such as high blood pressure, heart disease. So compared with current situation, I think people should reduce meat consumption. This change will also influence other fields such as climate, protect our environment. From Fiona article, Dr Marco Springmann said that the same time, the food system is responsible for more than a quarter of all greenhouse gas emissions, and therefore a major driver of climate Fiona) While the protein found in meat is helpful for restoring and building bodies, but we certainly need a lot meat portion of meat with every meal. Current issue is that people eat too much meat in the world. So reduce eating meat is better for body is base on current daily meat consumption. In America, average consumption is far more than recommended number. From Ted Kallmyer, people need 0.65 gram per pound of the body weight to maintain muscle, that means if a people is 150 pound weight, he need to eat average 100g meat per day, if he eat more than 100g, he maybe going to gain weight faster. Maybe some people want to build muscle and eat much meat to protein supplement, from article, people who want to build their body need to eat 1 gram meat per pound of their weight.(Ted) Which means if a 180 pound person want to build muscle, he need 180g meat per day. What is 180g meat? It is less than half a coke can. So reduce meat consumption mean people have to entail going full vegetarian, even just whittling down portions. In addition, eating meat also has impact to our environment and climate. In the past three decades, carbon emission related to agriculture and food production are close to account about for half of carbon . If all Chinese people follow the Chinese food guide, global agricultural emissions would drop 12 percent.(Bard) How is it works? There are millions of animals live in animal farms, and every day they need breathe, food, and other vital movement. Livestock require so much more food, water, land, and energy than plants to raise and transport. Which emissions a lot carbon dioxide. So when people reduce the number of them, emissions would be significantly decreased. How about American people? In fact average American person consume twice meat than average Chinese person. Another , if most people in the world reduce eating meat, carbon emission will goes down a large number. We all know carbon emission is a big problem in the world right now. So diets have a significant impact for nature. Maybe some people think they have no problem with a meat meal everyday, but people should know that global warming is a serious problem now, so that reduce eating meat is not only influence a certain person. It also protect our environment. For people who eat a lot meat, check out these benefits and reduce your meat consumption could make you feel better. Some studies showed that eating much meat is harmful for bodies. First, people will reduce inflammation in your body. body may increase the level of inflammation. Compare to vegetarian, vegetarian diet are naturally anti-inflammatory, because they have high antioxidants, and other phytonutrients. From article, she found that vegetarian have lower level of inflammation of their bodies.(Michelle). Studies have shown that people who adopt plant-based diets can dramatically lower their level of C-reactive protein (CRP), an indicator of inflammation in the (Michelle). In addition, vegans have lower risk than people who eat a lot meat to get type 2 diabetes. From Michelle, in the Health Professionals Follow-up Study, in their study population, meat eater increased the risk of diabetes by 74%. blood cholesterol levels will plummet. Etc. These studies showed that eating meat is really influence health, and most of these impact is negative to bodies. Through these studies, obviously, people especially Americans really need to reduce the consumption of meat, many thing we could do to reduce meat consumption. In the first, people need to know how much meat they really need, and eat more than that. I expect people give up the choice to eat 10 Easy Ways to Reduce Your Meat ). In my opinion, overweight is also a big health problem and it usually cause by unhealthy diet, so people should care about their food and know what they eating are. The second way is use alternatively food as protein supplement such as lentils and almonds which also have protein. For example, you could put some lentils to make a mixture lentil meat burger instead of meat burger. People could still have a nice meal while reduce eating meat. Finally, I hope people could receive a better life. Eat less meat is a good way to get good life. It is easy to understand that less meat cause less agriculture emissions and low risk of sickness. No one is small, Everyone will make a huge impact on the health of our planet and its inhabitants. After all, being healthy is not just about the food, it is also about our consciousness Work cited page Bard plumer, China is urging people to eat less meat which could have a big climate , 2016 Jun. 21, VOX.com web. 2017 Apr. 20. Available from: http://www.vox.com/2016/6/21/11978318/china-less-meat-schwarzenegger-cameron Fiona Harvey, Eat less meat to avoid dangerous global warming, scientists , 2016 Mar. 21, Theguardian, available from: https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2016/mar/21/eat-less-meat-vegetarianism- dangerous-global-warming Michelle McMacken, 7 Things That Happen When You Stop Eating , 2016 Jan.12, Wellness, Available from: https://www.forksoverknives.com/7-things-that-happen-when-you- stop-eating-meat/ Ted Kallmyer, We Eat Too Much , n.d. Healthy Cooking 101, Available from: https://healthyeater.com/eating-meat 10 Easy Ways to Reduce Your Meat , farmsnotfactories, Available from: http://farmsnotfactories.org/articles/10-easy-ways-to-reduce-your-meat-consumption/