Zena Rigaud Mr. Carter English Composition 2 16 April 2017 Diversify Beauty Standards in the Media Within recent years the issue of beauty standards has become a highly debated controversy because of it becoming a more prevalent issue in the media. Large well known beauty companies are creating advertisements that showcase unrealistic images of beauty which is causing poor body image to be developed at a very young age. Research has shown that the current beauty ideals that are being portrayed in the media are negatively impacting women. With media becoming a dominating factor of the current generation, it has also become an enormously influential issue. In an article written on the effect on body image, Arielle Cutler states draws on insecurities to convince them to buy a product, and few populations are as insecure overall as adolescent Because of this, young women are being exposed on a daily basis with advertisements that are showcasing photoshopped and unrealistic images of women. This is causing antisocial behavior, anxiety, low self-esteem and other possible mental illnesses to arise amongst women. Seven in ten girls they do not measure up in some way including their looks, performance in school and (Dove Self-Esteem Fund). In addition to these advertisements, social media also plays a huge roll in the way that young women view themselves. They feel like they have to live up to these unrealistic standards by posting highly edited and filtered versions of themselves. existing beauty standards that are being portrayed in the media are unrealistic and therefore harmful to adolescent Because of the high exposure and constant comparison to unrealistic images of beauty, young women start believing that this is what they are supposed to look like. To help combat this, young women can make small personal changes in their lives as well as purchasing products from companies supporting this issue in order to evoke a direct response from companies who do not share the same values. though women have made progress in this aspect over the years, society continues to place a large emphasis on appearance and how women are supposed to look. This makes it extremely challenging for young women to embrace their own individuality instead of attempting to be someone they are not in order to live up to these standards. Large beauty companies continuously advertise images of models who only fit a certain standard of beauty in order to promote their products. As a result of this, young women start believing that this is what they are supposed to look like and start comparing themselves to these unrealistic images. In an article for applied social psychology, Melissa Jean Schuller viewing images of stick-thin models and celebrities who are praised for their bodies and beauty makes being extremely thin seem like the norm. It gives young girls and women an incorrect impression of how many people are actually (Schuller). This quote is demonstrated in the ad that was created by Secrets showcasing strictly thin models standing alongside each other with the statement perfect placed underneath them. Young women looking at this ad from a highly reputable lingerie company start to believe these images reflect a true idea of beauty that they have to live up to. Furthermore, direct attention needs to be put on young women, educating them that these images that are currently being portrayed by the media are not real. They need to be made aware of the fact that these images do not solely represent what it means to be beautiful and that it is acceptable to be themselves. If young women are not educated on this issue they will be more vulnerable to the manipulation of these advertisements. They will continue to think they have to post edited and filtered images of themselves on social media because that is what is considered to be beautiful. This is an important issue because it is directly linked to the mental health and body image of young women. It is something that will continue to affect them in many aspects of their lives if not immediately acted upon. It is also crucial in the development of adolescent girls and way in which they view themselves. For example, constantly having access to these unrealistic images, you can begin to develop low self esteem and poor body image, leading to you not wanting to participate or be present during social gatherings. It can also lead to more severe issues such as eating disorders paired with anxiety and stress. Many young women start believing that they have to be just as skinny as the models they see everyday on tv, billboards and in magazines in order to be considered beautiful. To achieve this, extreme measurements are often taken such as starving oneself or going on strict diets with hopes of achieving this thin ideal. Continuously chasing after this unattainable ideal is what ultimately establishes eating disorders such as anorexia and bulimia. In an article written by Jo Swinson who a british member of parliament for East Dunbartonshire in Scotland and co-founder of the campaign for Body Confidence states vital that we take steps now so that members of the next generation will grow up learning to accept their bodies in a culture that celebrates health and confidence over a false (swinson). You should care about this issue because by caring now we can start making a difference for the future generations so that they can live a life that is free from all the negative effects that these unrealistic beauty standards would otherwise have on their lives such as eating disorders. In order to fix this issue we need to take simple yet vital steps in order to make a difference and demonstrate that this is an important issue. Beauty companies need to start by showcasing a more diverse selection of women through their advertisements. By representing women from more than one ethnicity, size or background, companies will create a more inclusive community. Young women will no longer feel left out and pressured to fit one certain ideal of beauty. They should also consider decreasing the use of photoshop to prevent unhealthy representations of body ideals. Apart from the companies, you have more power than you think in making a difference and taking a stand on this issue. You can make some personal changes in your life like placing sticky notes on your mirrors that include positive affirmations such as are beautiful just the way you or love By doing this you can switch from feeling bad about yourself because of the impossibility of attaining these unrealistic standards to reminding yourself everyday through positive reinforcement that you are perfect just the way you are. You can also share your own personal story for the #RealBeauty story of new Real Beauty Productions. Dove is working with Shonda Rhimes who is a famous creative director on a new collaborative studio that will create stories based on real lives and experiences. They are looking for stories that will help broaden the definition of beauty worldwide. You can also transition to buying beauty products from companies like Dove who strive for a more diverse and inclusive idea of beauty where is a source of confidence, not (Dove). By doing this you will automatically force a response from other beauty companies who not share the same core values. Another thing that these young women can do is limit their exposure to these images on a daily basis by spending less time on social media. In this way they can take control on their own lives and dictate how much exposure they allow themselves to have on these unrealistic images. As beauty standards have become a more prevalent issue in the media, more people are starting to pay attention to the negative effects it has on young women. The images that are currently being portrayed in the media are unrealistic and therefore harmful to the well being of young women. By immediately tackling this issue we can help prevent future generations of young women to live free from the negative effects of these unrealistically high standards of beauty. To accomplish this, companies need to start representing a more diverse selection of women from different backgrounds, shapes and sizes as well as decreasing their use of photoshop. Young women can also contribute to this by making small personal changes in their lives as well as solely purchasing products from beauty companies that think this issue is important, which will directly force a response from beauty companies that do not share the same values. Works Cited  The Effect on Body Image. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Fund, Dove Self-Esteem. New National Report Reveals the High Price of Low  PR Newswire: press release distribution, targeting, monitoring and marketing. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Melissa Jean Schuller Media and the Perception of  Media and the Perception of Beauty - Applied Social Psychology. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Swinson, Jo. False beauty in advertising and the pressure to look  CNN. Cable News Network, 10 Aug. 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Welcome to  Dove UK. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.