Zeinelabdin 1 Suha Zeinelabdin Mr. Carter ENC 1102 18 April 2017 Keep Calm and Spare the Rod The majority of Americans use spanking as a way of disciplining their children. Most parents believe that spanking their children will promote positive behavior (Altschul et al. 695). Parents also think that physical punishment is the only efficient way to get their children to comply. However, they do not realize that spanking may increase aggression in children and other unwanted behaviors (Altschul et al. 695). Corporal punishment can range from caning or flogging to slapping, shaking, or spanking a child with hand. All of these forms of physical punishment are dangerous and ineffective as a method of discipline. Not only are they harmful for children, but they are also a violation of rights. Instead, parents should use alternatives to corporal punishment, such as positive reinforcement. Schools such as, Hillsborough Community College Child Development Center, are against using corporal punishment as a way of teaching children unacceptable behavior. Bright Horizons, a USF preschool, educates parents on positive parenting and provides helpful tips on discipline. Corporal punishment is an unsafe and contradictory form of discipline, which is why caregivers should abandon its use. The problem is that too many parents are using physical force to discipline their children and do not see it as harmful. To solve this issue, parents need to learn about effective non-physical disciplinary strategies and apply them to their own children. Many parents are unaware of the negative outcomes that may arise from the use of corporal punishment. Some of the risks associated with physical punishment include children Zeinelabdin 2 developing mental health issues, child abuse, and lack of social competence. Often times, parents hit their children out of anger and frustration. Mothers who display these behaviors when using physical punishment can cause children to angry and noncompliant and distance themselves from (Ateah et al. 128). Corporal punishment in fact weakens the relationship between parent and child (Ateah et al. 128). Children may be experiencing a lack of warmth from their caregivers. Researchers have also found that harsh corporal punishment the probability of depression and alcoholism in adulthood, regardless of socioeconomic status or family history of psychiatric (Ateah et al. 128). Corporal punishment does not only cause harm to children physically, but also mentally. When a parent hits their child, they create physical and psychological scars. Children learn to fear their parents and fail to learn from their mistakes. This can cause them to feel depressed from the beatings they receive from their loved ones. Another negative outcome from corporal punishment is child abuse. Hitting child out of great frustration and anger lead to injury and therefore child (Ateah et al. 128). not all physical punishment results in injury to the child, studies of child abuse cases indicate that most are the result of incidents of physical discipline in which parents have lost control or underestimated their own (Ateah et al. 128). Corporal punishment may not be classified as child abuse however, its use can advance to serious harm and physical abuse. In another article called Not researchers have found that was a significantly stronger predictor of social competence than (Altschul et al. 695). This essentially means that providing warmth and security enhances a ability to communicate effectively with others. Social interaction is important for us as human beings. However, corporal punishment diminishes a competency to interact socially. Zeinelabdin 3 parents spanked me and I turned out This is a common argument parents use to advocate spanking their children. Most parents that apply spanking in their households believe it teaches their children respect. Without the use of physical punishment, parents fear that their kids will become self-centered. The reason corporal punishment is common in the U.S. is because it has been a part of Western culture for many generations (Moninger, 2012). Its practice is favored more in the South and West, than in the Northeast and Midwest (Moninger, 2012). Corporal punishment has been viewed as a part of effective discipline for several years. Therefore, it is difficult for parents to think that they are harming their children. Despite this, a study conducted in 2013 discovered that children spanked more than twice in the prior month at age 3, by either mother or father, was associated with increased child aggression at 5 (Lee et al. 1476). Physical punishment can be a contradictory form of discipline. This is because children learn that hitting someone is how you explain they are wrong. Also, physical punishment shows children that violence is how they should deal with their problems. It is important for parents to realize that using corporal punishment creates undesirable negative consequences, such as increased aggressive behaviors. How you shape your child is part of how you shape their future. The more aggressive children are, the more violence exists in society. Parents are doing more harm to their children than good when they use corporal punishment. Since most parents are accustomed to using physical punishment to discipline their kids, they are unfamiliar with alternate disciplinary strategies. Or some parents do not think they are as effective as spanking. However, it is your responsibility as a parent to take the time to learn about non-physical modes of discipline. Some non-physical strategies you should use include positive reinforcement, ignoring misbehavior, time-outs, and logical consequences (Moninger, 2012). You need to apply these strategies to your own children and avoid using Zeinelabdin 4 physical punishment. Health care providers, such as pediatricians need to educate parents on the risks of using corporal punishment. They need to also provide parents with alternative methods and resources to help them get started. Furthermore, as a parent you can support anti-corporal punishment organizations, like UNICEF to help spread awareness. UNICEF fights against violence and fights for rights. Follow the hashtag #ENDviolence to support our cause. Change starts with you. Take action against the use of corporal punishment for the sake of all children. Corporal punishment is an ineffective and harmful way to discipline children. It increases aggressive behavior, fails to build social competence, creates mental health issues, and sometimes leads to child abuse. Not only is corporal punishment dangerous to use, but it also infringes upon the rights of children. There are other ways to discipline children and physical punishment is not one of those ways. It is up to you to learn about non-physical strategies to discipline your children and apply them. Take a stand against the use of physical punishment. Together we can help children grow up in an environment without violence. Your children look up to you for guidance. So, make sure you teach, not hit. Zeinelabdin 5 Works Cited Altschul, Inna, Lee, Shawna J., & Gershoff, Elizabeth T. (2016). Not Hits: Warmth and Spanking as Predictors of Child Social Journal of Marriage and Family, 78, 695-714. Ateah, Christine A., M. Loretta Secco, and Roberta L. Woodgate. The Risks and Alternatives to Physical Punishment Use with  Journal of Pediatric Health Care 17.3 (2003): 126-32. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Lee, Shawna J., Catherine A. Taylor, Inna Altschul, and Janet C. Rice. Parental Spanking and Subsequent Risk for Child Aggression in Father-involved Families of Young  Children and Youth Services Review 35.9 (2013): 1476-485. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Moninger, Jeannette. The Great Spanking  Parents. Parents, 11 June 2015. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Thompson, Richard, Kim Kaczo, Douglas J. Lorenz, Berkeley L. Bennett, Gabriel Meyers, and Mary Clyde Pierce. Child Behavior and Mental Health: Is the Use of Physical Discipline Associated with Aggressive Behaviors in Young  Academic Pediatrics 17.1 (2017): 34-44. Web. 11 Apr. 2017