Macatol, 1 Zyrylou Macatol Adam Carter ENC 1102 18 April 2017 How Media Affects Body Image Issues Although body image issues have always been prevalent in society: the surge of technology and social media throughout previous years has made the issue one of great relevance. Media has made it as easy as a click of a button to communicate with someone halfway across the world as well as share media for the entire world to be able to see. With all of the positive changes social media has brought about; it has caused negative change as well. Social platforms such as Instagram, Twitter, and other image sharing websites act as an outlet for media personalities to advertise themselves and release images of their bodies. These images are not always realistic and studies have shown that two out of three social media users tell lies to (psychologytoday.com). Social media users make not only their personal lives appear more satisfying but they will also edit their images in ways that does depict the physical reality of their appearance (techtimes.com). This emphasizes the body image issues in society because women are constantly being presented these images of thin and beautiful women by not only advertisers but also social media users. The media has created an idea of what the ideal female should look like and children and early adolescents are especially vulnerable to this idea as they are still forming their own perceptions of themselves and their bodies. To combat this women need to take initiative now against Instagram and join the campaign against this injustice. Macatol, 2 Social media has established an unrealistic (psychologytoday.com). A study conducted by Kristen Harrison analyzing the perception of the viewer on the ideal body proportions of television characters showed that the ideal women is a size 4 in the hips, size 2 in the waist, and a size 10 in the bust. This body type is much thinner than the average female and cannot physically be attained by most women (Wiseman, Gray, Mosimann, & Agrens, 1992). This is a grave issue because in order to attain these body proportions; women will turn towards extreme and unhealthy methods such as eating disorders and excessive dieting. Numerous studies that have been conducted on the relationship between media and body image and they are showing that to and pressure exerted by media increase body dissatisfaction and disordered A study conducted by Wendy Spettigue and Katherine E. Henderson at the Canadian Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry showed that media does contribute to the development and maintenance of eating disorders. This study couples with the aligns with the reason that eating disorders have so common in children and adolescents (psychology today). If we end this then we will also do good by promoting a more positive body image but also to prevent the uprise of eating disorders. Previous generations never had to deal with the issue of being bombarded with images everyday of women with virtually no visible body fat and unrealistically large assets. Studies have shown that viewing pictures of thin models affects women equally despite what their own weight is (Hamilton, Mintz, & Kashubeck-West, 2007). This may be due to the unrealistic proportions of the ideal women so that no matter how thin a woman can be; in the eyes of social media they can never be thin enough. Females are Macatol, 3 shown to have a bias towards the unrealistic body proportion that has been curated by social media as it has presented this body shape as the for health and (psychologytoday.com). Due to the vulnerability of female children and adolescents; they are made to believe that they should appear like the way media depicts an ideal female and they do not realize that they do not have to look like that to be beautiful. Beauty is such a broad and relative term that cannot be defined by one entity. Since media is such a large influence in the everyday lives of the adolescents in todays society it is easy for it to take such a powerful hold in dictating what is and beautiful. It should not be that simple for it to do so and measures must be taken in order to prevent further damage caused by social media on the body image of the woman. You should care because it affects everyone in society whether they realize it or not. We need to work against these doings before they cause more damage. Several measures can be taken to prevent this issue. Measures should be taken individually and as a group. Individually; one could simply not partake in the practice of editing their images in ways that are not realistic. One could also raise awareness by posting pictures that depict their flaws and point out that everyone has things they are insecure about and that they necessarily see as perfect but it is ok. A movement has been boiling up in social media where popular characters have been posting pictures that highlight their flaws such as when they are bloated after just eating or of them portrayed in bad and unflattering angles. Uploading just one photo that is contrary to the rest of your feed where you are portrayed in the best way possible could show people and make people realize that social media is not real. It is an enigma used by people to make others believe they lead better lives or are more physically attractive than they actually are. As a Macatol, 4 group; social media users can attack this issue head on by attacking the most popular social media outlet; Instagram. Users can upload a picture that I have curated on my facebook page www.workagainstinstagram.com and use them as their profile pictures. This image will say stop promoting unrealistic body proportions and we will start using Instagram again. If enough people do this; then Instagram will notice and work to solve this issue. Whether you approach the issue as a group or as an issue; anything will help to show vulnerable female adolescents that social media is not real and therefore will help them realize that they do not have to look like the ideal women that social media has curated. As I have presented several ways to act requiring little to a great amount of effort depeniding on what you would like to exert; there is no reason to not act. The issue that social media has exaggerated on the body image of female adolescents is one that has become a grave one with the up-rise of social media. They are especially vulnerable to the unrealistic body proportions curated by the media as they are still developing their own sense of character and body perceptions. This leads to an increased number of unhealthy and extreme eating disorders in not only these adolescents but all of those that use social media. Action must be taken to combat this or this will only become a greater issue as social media earns a greater hold in society. Whether you take action as an individual or with others; anything will help. You can make a large difference. Macatol, 5 Work Cited Vitelli, Romeo. Media Exposure and the   Psychology Today. Sussex Publishers, 18 Nov. 2013. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Harrison, Kristen. Television Ideal Body Proportions: The Case of the Curvaceously Thin  SpringerLink. Kluwer Academic Publishers-Plenum Publishers, n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Times, Tech. Lie on Facebook, Other Social Networks. It Causes  Tech Times. N.p., 02 Jan. 2015. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Media, Body Image, and Eating  National Eating Disorders Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Spettigue, Wendy, and Katherine A. Henderson. Eating Disorders and the Role of the  The Canadian Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Review. Canadian Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Feb. 2004. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Hamilton, Emily A., Laurie Mintz, and Susan Kashubeck-West. Predictors of Media Effects on Body Dissatisfaction in European American  SpringerLink. Kluwer Academic Publishers-Plenum Publishers, 28 Feb. 2007. Web. 18 Apr. 2017.