Winton1 Adam Winton Ms. Tisdale ENC 1101 5 March 2017 How the Conversation Around Esports Has Changed What is your favorite video game? Is it one from back in the day that brings back nostalgia, or a current one that you just put down. Well, how would you feel if you learned you could get paid for playing video games, in the same way that athletes get paid to play football. Sound too good to be true? Welcome to the world of Esports. Esports are the competitive level of playing video games. They have organizations and dedicated players, just like any other sport. The conversation surrounding Esports has changed over time because Esports have grown to now be comparable to traditional sports, through their immense fan base, sponsor-driven teams, and international events larger than some sports. The conversation about Esports when it first started was not How much money will I  or How many people will be ? It was a tight niche community of people who just loved their games. When Esports was first starting off, no one talked about it being a real sport, or even about how huge it was, it was about the community and a way to make video games a spectator event. A great quote from the Smash Brothers Documentary was When the set was over, Ken said to me you had no chance. the kind of thing that makes a person want to get better. exciting, it gives life a little (Travis Beauchamp). The players did not gain their drive from the money they will make, or how famous they will be. They gained their drive through competition and the love for the game. The conversation around Esports in Winton2 the beginning was not about becoming a sport, but rather a conversation of just becoming and growing. As Esports grew though, and with the rise of the internet, Esports started to see more involvement by companies like MLG (Major League Gaming). As Esports began to grow more within its audience, more companies became aware. MLG, or Major League Gaming, was one of the first companies to see the potential in most Esports, not just computer based Esports. After adoption of Esports, the scene had immense growth, and the conversation changed from how can we start  to how far can we  At this point no one was really saying that Esports would be bigger than tennis, most players or spectators still viewed it as a niche that they belonged to. The economic resources within eSport make it worthwhile for players to spend hours on training and competing to get  (Kalle Jonasson). No one could really tell how big Esports would grow at this point, but they all knew that it was gaining momentum fast, and the momentum gained major traction due to a website. In June of 2011, a website by the name of Twitch.Tv was launched. This website would help push Esports out of the dark and into conversation of those who dedicated to Esports. Twitch is a live-streaming website that makes it so a lot of Esports events are free and easy to watch. Because twitch is free and widely known it makes it so that people who are unfamiliar with the Esports are able to easily learn about it. With twitch bringing in a wider audience, the conversation shifted away from how far can we  to are we big enough to be a . For example, the third season championships of League of Legends garnered more viewers on Twitch than the BCS national championship, NBA finals, and World  (Schwartz 2014). Esports has moved into contention to be considered a sport if the reasoning is that no one would Winton3 watch others play video . A lot of those not familiar with Esports accuse of not being a real , but those who can truly make it can see an immense payoff. Now we get to today, where Esports is bigger than ever. To those that actually know about Esports, know that it is huge and comparable to traditional sports, while there are still those who accept the new age of electronic sports. The latest International [Dota 2 which took place in August, had a prize pool of more than $20m, according to  (Jana Jacobs). The conversation has now transitioned into, we should be recognized as a sport and we know it. Esports is a large market with the conversation similar to that of a traditional sport, due to its new size and strength. People can now recognize Esports and create a conversation with those who follow it religiously to those who know about the game, and a little of the Esports scene. Esports have now moved on from being a small little niche with a quiet conversation into a mass market with conversations between its most devoted fans to those who only know little of it. The conversation around Esports has changed over time due to its growth over time and it now being comparable to that of traditional sports. Winton4 Work Cited Beauchamp, Travis, director. The Smash Brothers. East Point Pictures, 2013. Jacobs, Jana. Welcome to Esports: More than just a , Finweek, 24 November, 2016. Jonasson, Kalle, Thibord, Jesper. Electronic sport and its impact on future sport  Sport in Society, volume 12, no. 2, 2010, pages 287-299, http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17430430903522996. Accessed 13 Feb. 2017 Schwartz, N. (2014, December 1). 27 million people watched the of World Championship (more than the World Series or NBA Finals). USAToday. Retrieved from http://ftw.usatoday.com/2014/12/league-of-legends-worlds-viewership-esports-world-seriesnba- finals