Quintana 1 Madeline Quintana Professor Penuliar ENC 1102 15 April 2017 How to Deal With Guns in America For the last couple of decades, gun control has become very popular throughout the media due to mass shootings, school shootings, and police brutality cases on television. There are some people who believe that the solution to all of this chaos is to ban guns. Imagine, a life where no one owned a gun, no way for you to get shot by someone, right? Not necessarily. Criminals, which are usually the ones that shoot others, will find a way to get a gun from the black market or some other means in order to cause the same amount of damage. So how do we solve this problem? We do as much as we can in an effort to only allow those who are capable of owning a gun to have one. Currently, when buying a gun the customer must go through a background check to ensure that they have not been convicted of a felony in the past. But, in order to make this system better we could require that they also pass a course in order to ensure they know how to safely handle the gun and know when to use it in a self-defense scenario. We should also have everyone that buys a gun to take a course every two years in order to make sure they still know how to safely handle and operate the fire arm. I believe that by doing this we as a nation can prevent guns from getting into the wrong hands. I am not saying that this will completely get rid of every problem with a firearm, because that is not possible; however, it will help to minimize the violence that there is with guns. As a nation the more people that we get to have the same mindset and come together to push for the same solution, the quicker it will be to implement that solution. We as a nation, as a community, as the people need to work together and donate, spread Quintana 2 awareness, or in some way contribute to the cause and make sure that we have the support in order to make a difference and make the country safer by making regulations and laws that will help reduce the amount of guns that get into the hands of the wrong people. It is surprising to think that more than 16% of all deaths in the United States in 2014 were caused by a firearm. This means that about 34,000 deaths in 2014 were caused by a firearm. About 63% of these deaths were recorded as suicide (Deaths and Mortality). With these statistics we can see that this issue of guns is an important part of our society and that something has to change. According to the PewResearchCenter, than a third of Americans say they or someone in their household owns a (Desilver). Desilver, a researcher from Pew, also states that there is estimated to be more than 250 million guns in the United States, which is roughly one for every person living in the country. However, only about one-third of households actually own a gun, therefore we should be very closely monitoring who is able to purchase a gun. According to these statistics, households that are said to own a gun, probably have more than one firearm. If that weapon is put into the hands of the wrong individual there could be violence and deaths that come out of it. According to research done by Mother Jones, a leading independent news organization, there were 62 cases of mass shootings from the years of 1982-2012. From the information and analysis provided we can see that 49 of the killers owned the weapons legally (Follman, Aronsen and Pan). This is about 80% of all mass shootings in those thirty years were done with weapons that were attained legally. With all of these statistics we can see that there has to be some change in the policies that are in place for gun control in order to prevent gun violence and to prevent guns to be put in the hands of the wrong people. Engaging in the issue of gun violence and control is very important. Those opposed might argue that they are defending the Second Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. I Quintana 3 believe that we must do both, defend our right to bear arms, but also keeping in mind that we must keep our nation safe. By allowing someone that is incapable of operating a firearm to own one is putting our nation and the people in it at risk. With a new policy or law we can help to minimize the risk of violence by firearms in the United States. We could better enforce a background check for anyone that is purchasing a gun, as well as requiring them to take an educational course in order for them to learn to properly handle a firearm. It should be mandatory for one to take a course based on the firearm bought. For example, if someone were to purchase a 12-Gauge Shotgun, they would be required to undergo a background check, they must also take a class specific to 12-Gauge Shotguns, in order to safely know how to operate the firearm. In order to go forth with this idea of a solution, we as a nation must get involved in the issue at hand. Based on statistics we can see that this is an issue that is becoming more and more common and we cannot let that happen. By joining and collaborating with different organizations we can make a difference. Organizations such as the Brady Campaign have many different ways that you can show your support and towards helping the cause. The Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence is an organization that was started in order to a safer America by cutting gun deaths in half by (About Brady). So far, this organization has stopped millions of guns from getting into the wrong hands. By joining the efforts of the Brady Campaign we as a nation can help their mission for a safer America, by providing background checks to every firearm sold. There are many different forms of action that this organization supports: volunteer with the Brady Campaign, call your elected officials, sign a petition, donate, wear Brady apparel, and show your support on social media (Take Action). There are also many other organizations that you can join or take part in, in order to help this cause. But we cannot Quintana 4 make a difference, as a nation, without having the people that make up the nation be involved in the issues that are at hand, in this case gun violence. By having more and more people partake in these actions we can make a difference. Completely getting rid of all violence and deaths in the United States is not a realistic goal, especially within the next few years; it takes time to make a difference. However, by starting now and having people realize that gun violence is a very important problem in the United States, we can start making a difference. We must first all join together to educate the nation that this is an emerging issue. We must also invite everyone to take action with the issue at hand. Whether they decide to donate their money, volunteer or sign a petition, any little piece of support will make a difference. Quintana 5 Works Cited About Brady. 2016. 15 April 2017. <http://www.bradycampaign.org/about-brady>. n.p. Deaths and Mortality. 17 March 2017. 15 April 2017. <https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/fastats/deaths.htm>. n.p. Desilver, Drew. 4 June 2013. 15 April 2017. <http://www.pewresearch.org/fact- tank/2013/06/04/a-minority-of-americans-own-guns-but-just-how-many-is-unclear/>. n.p. Follman, Mark, Gavin Aronsen and Deanna Pan. A Guide to Mass Shootings in America. 8 January 2017. 15 April 2017. <http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2012/07/mass- shootings-map>. n.p. Take Action. 2016. 15 April 2017. <http://www.bradycampaign.org/take-action>. n.p.