Quintana 1 Madeline Quintana Professor Penuliar ENC 1102 21 February 2017 A Rhetorical Analysis: The Brady Campaign To Prevent Gun Violence As a society, everyone is influenced by the pictures and posters that are seen every day, through different rhetorical strategies. Many businesses and organizations use these appeals in order to have a consumer or the general public react or feel a certain way when looking at their ad or picture. The Brady Campaign To Prevent Gun Violence, also simply known as the Brady Campaign, is an organization aspiring to make a America by cutting gun deaths in half by (About Brady). This organization is run under the Brady Law which was established in 1993. This law was put into place in order to require background checks for every gun sold, transferred, or delivered. By requiring these background checks, the Brady Campaign helps to prevent guns to be put into the wrong hands, including anyone that is a felon, fugitive, domestic abuser or dangerously ill (Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence). Since the creation of this law, some states have gone further and required more background checks than what the law requires. This organization is currently trying to advocate to expand background checks in more states. The Brady Campaign argues that the most important aspect of gun control laws is the safety of the citizens through two pieces of visual rhetoric that communicate patriotism, statistics, and a call to action in order to have the public do something about the issue of gun control and gun violence in the United States. In the two pieces of visual rhetoric put out by the Brady Campaign one can see a very important similarity. Both images are filled with three main colors: red, white and blue. These Quintana 2 three colors are that of the American flag. By using these colors as the sense of patriotism, the Brady Campaign is appealing to pathos. Most of the people living in the United States have a sense of pride for the country and the flag that represents it. Pathos is known as an appeal to emotion. By using red, white, and blue the person viewing these images has already felt a connection. The color theory is used a lot in advertisements and images in an order to provoke a certain feeling or response in accordance with the color that is displayed (Ciotti). The first thing seen in image one is the colors, large spots of red and blue with white lettering grab attention. The use of red in images makes viewers stop and look at that color, just like the way that STOP signs are red in order to get attention. In the second image, the use of the American flag is very powerful in that it is not a subtle hint using colors it is using the flag itself in an effort to make people realize that this is a prominent issue in our society. The second image also, uses patriotism by using the phrase BLESS All standard US dollar bills have this phrase written on them, as well as most coins. The second image states that [people have in the United with a gun, and then immediately after uses the phrase Bless These phrases appeal to emotions and make one think about how ironic the two statements are when put together. Both of these images also use a lot of numerical values and statistics. By using this strategy, the Brady Campaign is using logos, ethos, pathos, and kairos. For example, in image one the amount of numbers is a sign that there has been research done, using percentages and numbers to show the effects of the Brady Law in the United States is persuading the viewers to join the movement and to help the Brady Campaign require background checks for gun sales. In image two, the Brady Campaign is using some numerical values, but they are using it in order to persuade a different message. The second image is meant to persuade viewers to ban all guns in Quintana 3 the United States; the picture is stating that the United States has had more murders from guns than six other countries combined. The first image uses a few statistics in order to appeal to emotions as well as issues that are occurring in society. For instance, stating that fewer police officers [have murdered by in states that required more background checks than the law specifies, is targeting a major topic in society. The Black Lives Matter movement has caused a lot of chaos in the United States, which has led to the killing of police officers. Pathos is seen throughout the entirety of the first picture, through the use of statistics. The numerical values throughout this piece, force the reader to consider what it would be like if the law was never put into place, as well as prompting the viewer to think about what difference it would make to further the Brady Law and require expanded background checks for more states. For example, if the law would have not been put into place, it is possible that many more shootings could have occurred and many more lives would have been lost, due to the amount of guns that been put in the wrong hands. Also, by saying that the law was passed 20 years ago and including the logo of the organization, the ad provides credibility to the Brady Campaign. Throughout these two images, the Brady Campaign persuades the viewer to have a specific view on the Brady Law or guns. On the first image the Brady Campaign is using a call to action by using the words the By using these words it is almost as if the pressure is put on the viewer to make the difference. The second image uses a less subtle way, by asking to make a and providing a link where the viewer can go to become a part of the organization and contribute to the cause. Finish the Job is a sub-organization created by the Quintana 4 Brady Campaign in order to advocate for Congress to expand background checks to all gun purchases within the country (Keeping Guns out of Hands). The Brady Campaign has put out many images and advertisements in an effort to persuade the viewers to look into the topic of gun control by using patriotism, statistics and a call to action. While using all of these ideas, the Brady Campaign is using pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos. By using all of these rhetorical appeals, this organization is successful in putting out their views and ideas. When trying to persuade a specific group of individuals, companies and organizations must learn to effectively and accurately put out information that will appeal to the right group of people, while also giving off the right message. The Brady Campaign uses patriotism, statistics, and a call to action in order to incite a response from the public and have the people who see the image make a difference and actually do something about the issue at hand: gun control laws. By using these images as well as the other advertisements put out by the Brady Campaign, this organization has become more popular and has had more public response. Although, not all images provide the same exact message as one another, they all contain the values that the organization upholds and also displays their main priority and mission statement, which is to have a safer nation as a whole. Quintana 5 Works Cited About . 2016. 15 February 2017. <http://www.bradycampaign.org/about-brady>. Ciotti, Gregory. The Psychology of Color in Marketing and . 13 April 2016. 15 February 2017. <https://www.entrepreneur.com/article/233843>. Keeping Guns out of . 2016. 15 February 2017. <http://www.bradycampaign.org/our-impact/campaigns/keep-guns-out-of- criminals%E2%80%99-hands>. Quintana 6 Quintana 7