Alfaro 1 Ariel Alfaro Professor Dennis ENC 1102-003 30 April 2017 The Working Poor The struggle to raise the federal minimum wage to at least meets the cost of living has raged throughout society. This movement has become stronger than ever since the first success of a federal minimum wage increase during Barack first years in presidency. Though this was a notable success in 2009, it is now 2017 and the cost of living has increased. It has now been 8 years since there has been any increase in the federal minimum wage which still stands at $7.25. There are many politicians that argue that the federal minimum wage is sufficient for individuals to live on but an author, Barbra Ehrenreich, argues differently in her novel Nickel and Dimed. Ehrenreich conducted an experiment where she decided to live in three different states to attempt to survive on one or multiple minimum wage jobs (Ehrenreich, Nickel and Dimed). The fist area was Key West, Florida where she was hired for two waitressing jobs that payed about $2.43 an hour plus tips as well as a maid job. By the time she had taken four jobs just to pay $500 for an apartment, she quit everything and moved to the next location due to stress (Ehrenreich, Nickel and Dimed). Ehrenreich stated that she had a safety net of money and a stable job as an author but every other minimum wage worker does not, therefore they cannot leave as she did when everything becomes overwhelming (Ehrenreich, Nickel and Dimed). As the federal minimum wage stands, according to Barbra Ehrenreich and many other minimum wage workers, it is not enough to meet the cost of living in most states. For this reason, to Alfaro 2 prevent poverty for those that work 40 hours or more a week, it is necessary to support a minimum wage increase by raising awareness about the realities of attempting to live a stable life on minimum wage. Raising awareness throughout society can be accomplished by supporting a variety of organizations that encompass their activities with this idea such as the Raise the Minimum Wage Campaign and the Interfaith Worker Justice Organization. The support of organizations that fight for an increase in minimum wage has become necessary as those that work 40 or more hours a week still find themselves hopelessly impoverished. A minimum wage worker on the Raise the Minimum Wage Campaign website named Nicole Mason shared her story to raise awareness to those that do not understand what it means to truly attempt to survive minimum wage. Mason has a wage of $7.50 at a fast food establishment which has resulted in her being unable to support her two children (Raise the Minimum Wage Campaign). She wants to better herself by becoming a nurse, according to the article, but finds this to be an impossible goal as she must work 40 or more hours a week to provide for just for her children. The problem of minimum wage not meeting the cost of living is not something that only a small number of people experience as there are still 21 states that either have no specified minimum wage or they have their specified minimum wage at $7.25 (Economic Policy Institute). In the United States, there are about 77.2 million people that are paid on an hourly wage meaning that the conversation about whether the minimum wage should be raised is one that concerns about 58.7% of all workers that a living (Economic Policy Institute). The specific states that do not have a specified minimum or those that still follow the minimum wage can be seen on the Economic Policy graph below. Those that lived an impoverished life while still working was about 6.3% of the people in the labor force (Center for Poverty Research). Alfaro 3 If these employees are working as many hours as physically possible at their state mandated minimum wage, then why do they still have trouble feeding their dependents and finding a place to live? After 40 or more hours of work a week it should be expected that these minimum wage employees be able to at least have access to basic human needs (food and shelter) but this is frequently not the case. According to the graph below, presented by Carly Ledbetter in her Huffington Post article, an astonishing $19.47 wage in Florida would be needed to maintain at least a two-bedroom rental housing unit not including the cost of other living expenses (Ledbetter, The Huffington Post). Even with this knowledge of the rising cost of living, the federal minimum wage remains well below the expected amount to have some kind of shelter and sustenance. Economic Policy Institute Alfaro 4 An increase to the minimum wage would benefit a great number of minimum wage employees but there are many small business owners that still fear an increase to the minimum wage. Many small business owners share this fear because they believe that any increase to the minimum wage will leave them with little to no income as they struggle to pay their employees at least the new minimum wage (Martinez, The Seattle Times). According to Amy article in the Seattle Times, approximately 29%-36% of businesses income in Seattle is spent on labor alone while profit is about 4%-6% of income. This information makes any increase to the minimum wage a valid fear for small business owners. Though justified, there have been many studies that have been working towards debunking these fears of having to close due to little profit a large labor costs. Ledbetter, The Huffington Post Alfaro 5 Seattle recently underwent this change in minimum wage, and according to a study conducted by the University of Washington, the results were much less catastrophic than expected. In this study, the authors state that they did not find any compelling evidence that shows that there has been an increase in business failure due to the increase in minimum wage (Impact of the Minimum Wage, 4). It was also actually observed that in Washington, after interviewing several small business owners, the gradual increase of minimum wage actually helped with managing the change in expenses as well as the many programs that Washington offered these small business owners to help them successfully organize and manage. (Uzialko, The State of Small Business). To make a change in the lives of those that work 40 or more hours a week in a minimum wage job but still struggle to support themselves and their dependents, supporting certain organizations such as the Raise the Minimum Wage campaign and the Interfaith Worker Justice Martinez, The Seattle Times Alfaro 6 organization, can bring about awareness. The goal of these two organizations is to share the true story of the average minimum wage worker and what it truly means to live off minimum wage. Making a change is possible through your involvement with these organization. You have the option of becoming involved in their campaigns/gatherings as well as their fundraising and awareness-raising events. Becoming involved with the Raise the Minimum Wage campaign, can begin with the access of their website. Here you will have the option to donate to support their cause and even play an active role in their campaigns by searching for one nearby using their campaign listings. There are a variety of organizations that you can join, not the just the Raise the Minimum Wage Campaign. Another organization that you can join if you are more athletically inclined is the Interfaith Worker Justice organization. The Interfaith Worker Justic organization utilizes fundraising and awareness raising marathons around Tampa as well as most areas in Florida to make a change in the minimum wage. Also, if exercise is not quite your cup of tea, you also have the option of becoming an advocate for this organization through attending their many congregations where they raise awareness about the necessity of increasing the minimum wage. There is also an option to become an Interfaith Worker Justice E-Advocate where you would donate yout time to this organization through online petitions, online letter writing campaigns and social media. Social media use for this organization would also be used to communicate with officials such as politicians through Twitter to raise their awareness about the minimum wage situation as well. Joining or supporting an organization that enforces the idea of raising the minimum wage can promote the need for change throughout society, but there are also monumental actions you could do in your everyday life. Most large companies such as McDonalds and Wal-Mart are infamous for paying their employees the bare minimum. They either pay the federal minimum Alfaro 7 wage or their state mandated minimum wage but never in between. McDonalds currently holds about 1.9 million employees while refusing to go above the required minimum wage for most of its workers (McDonalds, Working at McDonalds). Most of these large corporations, like McDonalds, carry a strong presence in society as they are extremely well known. Being well known also means that their corporate habits are also followed which is why the government is having difficulty raising the minimum wage. To take away from their massive influence in society, boycotting these large corporations that refuse to raise their minimum wage and instead visiting local businesses to make purchases, can be an everyday action to actively work against those that do not support minimum wage increase. As stated before, 58.7% of all wage-earning employees earn either the federal minimum wage or the bare minimum of state mandated minimum wage. In this 58.7% are regular people such as Nicole Mason who only wants to make enough money so the her children can live comfortably. There are a variety of ways to get involved and make a change for those suffering due to a minimum wage that does not meet the cost of living. Through the involvement with a variety of organizations that support a minimum wage increase such as the Raise the Minimum Wage campaign and the Interfaith Worker Justice organization, one can spread awareness about the issue of the much too low minimum wage which will hopefully lead to higher wages that meet the cost of living. Alfaro 8 Works Cited Adam C. Uzialko, Business News Daily Staff Writer. The State of Small Business:  Business News Daily. Business News Daily, 09 Mar. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.businessnewsdaily.com/8852-doing-business-in-washington.html>. UC Davis Center for Poverty  Who are the working poor in America? University of California, 3 Nov. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://poverty.ucdavis.edu/faq/who-are- working-poor-america>. Interfaith Worker Justice. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.iwj.org/>. Ledbetter, Carly. This Is The Hourly Wage You Need To Afford A 2-Bedroom Apartment Around The  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 2 June 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Minimum Wage  Economic Policy Institute. EPI, 13 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Martinez, Amy. Tips Are Top Concern for Some in $15 Minimum-wage  The Seattle Times. The Seattle Times, 21 Apr. 2014. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. NELP.  Raise the Minimum Wage. NELP, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. http://raisetheminimumwage.com/.  Working at Staff & Management N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Vigdor, Jacob, Mark C. Long, Robert Plotnick, Ekaterina Roshchina, and Hilary Wething. REPORT ON THE IMPACT OF MINIMUM WAGE ORDINANCE ON Alfaro 9 WAGES, WORKERS, JOBS, AND ESTABLISHMENTS THROUGH  (n.d.): n. pag. University of Washington, 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.