Vega 1 Leonardo Vega Ms. Ashley Tisdale ENC1101 Sec 008 23 March 2017 US Pro-Tennis Decline in the Global Arena Tennis greats Connors, McEnroe, Sampras, and Agassi have made the USA one the most successful nations in the global platform. Since 2003, American tennis power shifted from great to a mere (Foster). Between 2000 and 2010, there was only one Grand Slam winner, Andy Roddick who won the 2003 US Open. The Slam drought worsened after 2010, with no American reaching the semifinals in over seven years. For over ten years, the struggle experienced by the American tennis circuit has been a topic of loud contention among players, coaches, and tournament directors. Coaches and players blamed situation with the on a poor approach to technique and tactics, compounded by the lack of clay court training (Konigsberg). Directors have taken issue with the below-average inconsistent rigor used to certify coaching professionals. However, one point of common ground laid on the weak multi-level approach. It failed to grow the popularity of the sport by not promoting tennis to all youths equally, not just the It also failed to create a plan that supports gradual development deep-rooted in commitment to tennis excellence, not just profit (Kamperman). The conversation surrounding the decline of American tennis has not changed much since 2002 because it continues to call attention to the same weaknesses the athletes must overcome to regain competitive global standings. To accomplish this, US male pro-players need more consistent exposure to high performance clay-court Vega 2 training, highly-qualified and accountable coaches, as well as more diversified and inclusive sponsorship opportunities to grow within the sport. A successful clay-court season is paramount for a tennis pro-player to maintain high rankings within the ATP World Tour. It includes thirteen tournaments, among them three Masters and the famous French Open. For more than ten years, clay-court dominance has been an elusive accomplishment for all American male tennis players on the pro-circuit, contributing to the steady decline of US tennis in the global arena. One of the greatest American tennis players, Pete Sampras, winner of thirteen major titles by 2002, never consummated the dream of winning the French Open. The problem affecting the decorated American player was simply the failure to practice more on clay-courts at home, and play more warm-up tournaments on clay before the main French event. With almost no clay-court training facilities in the US, and zero funding provided by the USTA to build pro-level, clay-based tennis courts, Pete Sampras possibilities to ever win the French Open were beyond (Foster). Twelve years later, American male tennis players continue to lack the proper clay-court training needed to be competitive on clay-surfaced pro-tournaments. Top-youth tennis player, Noah Rubin, winner of the 2014 Wimbledon Tennis Championship, failed to qualify for the French Open tournament, only two months earlier. Rubin joins the long list of American tennis players showing questionable tolerance against the slow-surface challenge. In a 2015 article, Eric Konigsberg, tennis correspondent with the New York Times Division, reported the expert views of GM of Player Development, Pat McEnroe, on the issue of US clay- courts. McEnroe pointed out the urgency of building regional clay-court hubs for more American players to grow up training on the slow surface so they could learn to a slower and higher-bouncing used so effectively by European players who often dominate during Vega 3 the pro-tennis clay-court season. That same year, the USTA created the Equipment and Facilities Grants Program, which was thought to be an answer to the much-needed funding to build and maintain true professional grade, clay-court facilities. Regretfully, the small $15000 grants were simply not enough funding to cover the cost of building organic clay-base courts in local tennis centers, let alone pro-training facilities and US pro-tennis players have endured on-going struggles to train in proper clay-court facilities at home, which has contributed to their many loses on clay-surface professional events. From Pete Sampras in the early to Noah Rubin in 2014, the poor clay-court season results of the American men have significantly reinforced a steady decline in the global arena. For over ten years, tennis experts content that the slump experienced by American male tennis players on the pro-tour could also be attributed to the lack of qualified US tennis coaching professionals. Lawrence Kleger, Head Coach of the John McEnroe Tennis Academy in NYC, claimed that coaching education going back to 2000, has not with the tennis advancements in other countries, and has failed to provide the proper platform to support a strong future for the men is US pro-tennis (Konigsberg). Like their European counterparts, American coaches have not been made accountable for keeping their credentials and necessary training up-to-date, to avoid a fine and possible USTA termination. Even more significant to the development of American tennis is that professional coaches in the US have never been required to obtain a special clay-court certification to help the American male athletes be successful during clay-based ATP World tournaments. In 2002, BCC writer J. Foster, suggested that Pete coach, Paul Annacone, lacked the experienced and ability to teach the American how to adjust his powerful play-style from the faster hard and grass courts to the slower clay surface. According to Coach Kleger, the problem of underqualified tennis coaching Vega 4 professionals in the US continued by 2015 (Konigsberg). He called for the USTA to allocate special funding to sponsor an oversees training exchange program for US coaching professionals at the ATP World Tour level. At present, the USTA has created a Professional Coaching Development Grant, focusing on a basic coaching certification process that supports the development of the sport at the community level and However, no USTA moneys are currently allocated toward the expansion of clay-court coaching certifications in the US, which continues to weaken the value of pro-level coaching staff, contributing to the decline of US tennis in the global circuit. One of the strongest arguments surrounding the decline of American male tennis players in the world standings has been the inadequate sponsorship and deficient pro-training opportunities. Since 2009, the USTA Recreational Tennis Division has provided grants which focused primarily in funding non-profit organizations at community level, such as parks and recreation facilities, as well as school districts. Their main intent was to develop tennis programs for children and promote diversity in the sport. But with only one office located in USTA headquarters handling funding for hundreds of potential recipients nationally, it was very difficult to account for local moneys accurately, and to ensure the and those grants were designed to support (Kamperman). That all changed in 2015, when the USTA Multicultural Grants Division opened six regional hubs around the nation, to effectively managed the allocation of direct funds. The most important USTA sponsorship improvement has been the creation of the High-Performance Grants Program. It identified as the single most significant hurtle preventing multicultural players from accessing the sport of tennis in the US and The USTA has been distributing this grant among individual, top-youth players attending prominent tennis academies in the US, who have Vega 5 been to lead the return of American male tennis players to the global top rankings (Konigsberg). The success of these USTA sponsorships has depended on the success of American tennis academies and their coaches, to continue encouraging talented, high-quality players capable of producing long term results in the pro-tour. One obstacle has endured: the one-size-fits-all approach of American whose main goal has been to turn young talent too quick into the pro-circuit, without the proper long-term coaching support. The USTA has confronted this issue by firmly proposing players first go to a four-year college program and then join the pro-tour (Konigsberg). Despite the advancements in USTA sponsorship programs, from 2009 to 2015, for high performance player development, American tennis academies have yet to produce a winning formula that ensures coaching patronage and support for experienced male tennis players in the pro-circuit. Until that happens, the US tennis may continue to decline in the global arena. In conclusion, US pro-players have endured a steady decline in the ATP World Tour standings since 2002. We have seen improvements made by the USTA to provide better sponsorships for high-performance players. Despite those advancements, the cookie cutter formula used by American tennis training academies have consistently failed to develop male players that can endure long-term success in the pro-circuit. This is primarily due to the lack of clay-court training and adequate coaching support that has plague the US pro-players for over ten years. One can argue that the decline of American male tennis players in the global arena between 2002 and 2015, could be transitory, and will eventually turn around. Considering all the global attention the US men have gotten in the fierce pursue of a pro-tennis comeback, perhaps one can speculate on the positive or negative effects this could bring to the US female tennis professionals, trying to overcome similar obstacles in the pro-circuit. Vega 6 Works Cited and USTA, 2015, www.usta.com/About-USTA/USTA-Awards/grants/. Accessed 15 Feb. 2017. Foster, J. Soils BBC News, BBC, 23 May 2002, news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/tennis/French open/1952120.stm. Accessed 8 Feb. 2017. Kamperman, Kurt. Awards over $400,000 in Recreational Tennis Grants to 45 Non- Profit Organizations across the USTA, 15 Aug. 2009, Accessed 9 Feb. 2017. Konigsberg, Eric. U.S. Tennis Rise The New York Times, The New York Times, 22 Aug. 2014, www.nytimes.com/2014/08/24/magazine/can-us-mens-tennis- Accessed 14 Feb. 2017.