Shaheen 1 Ferris Shaheen Prof. Karen Hanson ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Cyber Lives Matter Being a cyber citizen in the modern world comes with a lot more than most people might not have considered before. As of 2016, nearly 300 million people use the internet in the United States alone States Internet Each and every one of these activity online are protected by various acts and bills enacted by Congress. Without these legislations in place the online population would be prone to exploitation by anonymous sources on the internet. However, just because these rights are available to internet users now, mean that they will be forever. important that internet users in the U.S. stand up for their rights and privacies online. One of the arguably most overlooked facts by people today is the amount of time and effort spent on protecting their internet privacy. Nonprofits and internet-service providers (ISPs) alike fight back and forth tirelessly for Congress votes on bills that restrict or enable internet privacy and liberty. Meanwhile, the majority of internet users hardly consider the risk of the compromise of their privacy. In its everydayness, the internet is used by the public mostly to check emails and follow up on social media updates. In these situations, users consider the security of the servers that protect their data. Though this seems natural, important that the demographic of internet users be aware of their privacy online and not to take it for granted. On November , 2016, the Federal Communications Commission adopted an order to protect Shaheen 2 broadband consumer privacy. This report and order rules to give broadband consumers increased choice, transparency, and security over their personal data so consumers are empowered to decide how data are used and shared by broadband a clear step in the direction towards protecting online citizens Adopts Broadband Consumer Privacy However, in April 2017, this order was repealed, allowing internet-service providers the opportunity to collect browsing history data from consumers without their permission and joining the likes of Google and Facebook in the online ad market (Dunn). For example, based on browsing history they might see ads that are targeted to their searches and where been online. Google might know as much as your sex, approximate age, and interests (Caddy). One could argue that the life of the consumer online is unaffected, but does that justify the ethics of this decision? Internet-service providers already charge a monthly fee for access to the internet, and with this bill repealed they will profit even more off of consumers by using their data to sell ads. This is unethical and even disrespectful to the customers of these ISPs. Another prominent example of invasion of online privacy is the case of Edward Snowden. In 2013, Snowden published documents online that revealed the National Security (NSA) mass surveillance programs Is Edward This sparked controversy across the board. According to a Quinnipiac University poll in 2013, 55% of the population considered Snowden a whistleblower while 34% considered him a traitor 1, The data is certainly indicative of the shock at the extent the government would go to prevent terrorist attacks . more than likely that when someone is checking their email they probably considering sacrificing their privacy to protect themselves from domestic terrorism. Shaheen 3 So with all of this context easy to think but what can really be done, capitalism is what it is and the government needs to protect the nation First and foremost, NSA surveillance is absolutely unconstitutional and directly violates the Fourth Amendment. This decision made to sacrifice privacy for security on behalf of the population is unethical and should move people to take a stand. Fear of a world where the government tracks lives in an Orwellian nightmarish manner motivates people to be more active in the political climate. Regardless of party affiliation, invasion of privacy is unethical and should be put to an end. Even though voting is a powerful tool in the role of US government, 46.6% of the population vote last election November Election Turnout Though this percentage only makes up a minority of the population, these people likely also have an opinion on their privacy and liberty online, and their votes can make a difference. Large demographics like college students and other young Americans can make an impact on whether these bills pass or not. The first step you can take to make the difference is to be aware. Be aware of what happens in Washington D.C. and the bills affecting your privacy. Be aware of your news sources. If any reporting on some of these topics they might be biased (or worse, paid not to speak about them). Be aware of things you can do to contribute to the cause in your local area. Once someone has a good foothold on the political climate it becomes much easier to formulate opinions on what you like and like, what you want to vote for and what you want want to vote against. As a registered voter, you can call your district representative and let them know your opinions about certain bills. One phone call might not make the most difference, but many certainly can. You can also donate to causes and nonprofits Shaheen 4 that protect cyber liberties and privacies like the Electronic Frontier Foundation. Whichever you may prefer, there is always a way to let your voice be heard and you can make a difference. In conclusion, internet privacy is an ever-evolving subject that can be approached from many various stances. important to make sure that internet privacy remains safe from violations of ethics and the Bill of Rights, otherwise it can lead to a slippery slope of extreme rights violations and massive outrage. The works of nonprofits and whistleblowers alone are not always enough to protect the internet privacy, important for everyone who is eligible to share their voice to do so and make a difference in the way the government handles cyber security. Together, the constituents of this nation can vote to make internet liberty and privacy safe again. Shaheen 5 Works Cited 1, 2013 - Snowden Is WhistleBlower, Not Traitor, U.S. Voters Tell Quinnipiac University National University, Accessed 30 April 2017. Adopts Broadband Consumer Privacy Communications Commission, Web. Accessed 16 April 2017. Caddy, Becca, tracks everything you do: how to delete Web. Accessed 30 April 2017. Dunn, Jeff, just killed internet privacy-rules - what that means for Business Web. Accessed 30 April 2017. States Internet Live Stats, Accessed 16 April 2017 Is Edward Snowden Web. Accessed 16 April 2017 November Election Turnout Project, Accessed 16 April 2017