Santoro 1 Lena Santoro Professor Spencer Bennington ENC1102 16 April 2017 Vaccinations are for all Ages Growing up, children are poked and prodded in doctor offices to ensure their health as they grow. Most children receive their first vaccine within 24 hours after their born (Birth Through Age 18 Immunization Schedule), and as those children develop into adults they take their health into their own hands, becoming responsible for their own vaccinations and their Most of the time visits include receiving vaccinations, and up to the discretion of the parents to allow them to be administered their children. Sometimes parents decide to have their child forgo these vaccines because of their personal beliefs, but this can have a negative impact on not only that health, but others, for the rest of their lives. Child vaccinations, and vaccinations in general should be important to everyone since the decision to receive them affects anyone around them. By using social media, anyone can participate in National Immunization Awareness Month in August, which helps raise awareness for the importance of vaccines for people of all ages, and it starts with making sure people know why imperative to receive them. Usually the discussion of vaccinations begins at adolescence, and is one of the first times an in depth conversation about them takes place. Parents make the decision to vaccinate their Santoro 2 children from diseases such as Hepatitis, Rotavirus, and Tetanus (Birth Through Age 18 Immunization Schedule). There are many reasons why important for a child to be vaccinated because not only does it affect them, but others as well. Immunizations protect against diseases that use to be lethal, however with the continuous administration of them, cases of these diseases have been reduced, or even wiped out completely. An example of this would be smallpox, with the help of its vaccine smallpox have been eradicated all around the world (Five Important Reasons to Vaccinate Your Child). When the majority of people in a population continue to immunizes themselves, and their children, the small portion of people who vaccinated will be protected as well. After some time, the disease be able to survive in any person, and eventually disappears completely. clear that vaccinations have helped the betterment of people worldwide by eliminating lethal disease, and without them people would continue to die from completely preventative illnesses. Unfortunately, some refuse to receive these lifesaving shots because of common misconceptions. The common hoax surrounding vaccinations is that they can be harmful to those who receive them, but many people do not know that in regards to an extremely small percent. Something that a lot of parents believe to be true is that vaccines cause autism, despite the fact that numerous studies have found no evidence that supports this. Another myth according to publichealth.org is vaccines are made with unsafe amounts dangerous elements, particularly formaldehyde, mercury and aluminum. true that they are used, but the FDA and CDC noted that our bodies produce higher rates of formaldehyde naturally then placed in vaccines. For mercury and aluminum no scientific proof that indicates low amounts of these chemicals are detrimental to health, proving that this chemical fear is unwarranted Santoro 3 (Vaccine Myths Debunked). People have been basing their ill feeling towards immunizations based on a very few bad cases. special circumstances where it would be advised not to get vaccinated, but even those are very rare. When someone refuses to be vaccinated because of false knowledge they can be risking their health, which can ultimately affect their finances as well. In the end the knowledge gained that encourages you to immunize your child, or yourself, could save you and your family money in the future. According to Business Insider, global health costs saved three vaccines pneumococcal, rotavirus, and Haemophilus influezae type b are expected to total $63 billion between 2011 and 63 billion dollars saved from those who receive only three of the many vaccinations suggested, a substantial amount for only a few of the physician prescribed vaccines. It was also found that when looking at the, economic and social benefits of living a longer and healthier vaccines save up to 44 dollars to the dollar (Vaccines save up to 44 dollars to the This means when placing a price on the worth of living a long and healthy life there was a forty-four-dollar return on every one dollar spent. Therefore, if you, or a loved one were to forgo vaccinations and ended up getting sick, it would be costly to hospitalize them for treatment. It would also be expensive to continually treat someone throughout their lives who became disabled due to that sickness. However, vaccines can prevent these financial burdens if administered. People just need to make sure their getting them, and a way for anyone to help spread this message. To help spread awareness for vaccinations you first need to make sure you are caught up on your own. If you have already received your vaccinations, and know someone who had them themselves, or had their children receive them, there is a way to reach others to Santoro 4 let them know the good vaccines do. The month of August is National Immunization Awareness Month, and a great time to encourage others to stay up to date on their vaccinations. National Immunization Awareness Months purpose is to increase awareness about immunizations across the lifespan, from infants to the elderly (National Immunization Awareness In other words, National Immunization Month shows the importance of immunizations for people of all ages. The National Immunization Awareness Month takes place in August because when the flu vaccine becomes available. This is the first step in participating, and the perfect time to get yourself, and someone you care about into the office so they can see what other vaccines they may need while getting a flu shot. Another way to participate during this month wide event is to use your social media platforms to showcase your involvement. A couple ways to do this is by adding the National Immunization Awareness Month official logo and banner to your social media profiles, and using the hashtags, #VaxWithMe or #NIAM17. This will help make you an easily identifiable resource if someone has questions about vaccinations. Also, by posting the hashtags, when clicked, it will redirect a person to other vaccine information (National Immunization Awareness Month California Immunization Coalition). This makes you a very convenient and reliable source for those who may not have known the importance vaccinations beforehand. Doing these two things is an easy way to spread awareness about vaccines. Participating in National Immunization Awareness Month is something anyone can do, it just involves taking a little time to reach out to those you care about. Ultimately, keeping up with the recommend vaccination schedule is imperative to the well-being of not only children, but people of all ages. By receiving these important health supplements your well-being will be protected from completely preventable disease. Santoro 5 important to remember that doing your part in receiving your vaccinations will help protect others from the same deadly diseases. Also, vaccines are virtually harmless with the exception of a few rare cases, and they can help a person save money throughout their lifetime. By becoming a participant of National Immunization Awareness Month, you can help encourage others to take advantage of the many benefits vaccinations have to offer, and remind people that no matter what age you are vaccines are just important as ever. Santoro 6 Works Cited Birth Through Age 18 Immunization  Home. N.p., 18 Nov. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. National Immunization Awareness Month California Immunization  California Immunization Coalition RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. National Immunization Awareness  Vaccines.gov. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 11 Oct. 2006. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Five Important Reasons to Vaccinate Your  Vaccines.gov. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 11 Oct. 2006. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Vaccine Myths  PublicHealth.org. N.p., 27 May 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Vaccines save up to 44 dollars to the  ResearchGate. N.p., 08 Feb. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017