Brichner 1 Lilly Brichner Bob Botkin ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Killer Whales in Captivity: Taking Action Since the release of the famous Disney movie in 2002, the topic of whales being captured from their homes in the wild and exploited for entertainment has been a hot topic among animal rights activists. However, this conversation has more recently dispersed to the wider public with the release of the 2013 Netflix documentary Due to the emergence of facts and stories unmasking the negative effects that prolonged captivity can have on orcas, there has been some progress made in completely eradicating the capturing of whales for human entertainment. But, there is still work to be done as there are still sixty-one whales around the world in captivity; and without further action this number will continue to grow (killerwhale.org, 2014). As part of a multi-modal argument (website), this is an effort to involve people in an issue that can be solved starting with the smallest of actions. Why is whale captivity something to worry about? To begin with, it is considered inhumane. The capturing of animals of any species at a young age from their natural habitat can have both harmful physical and mental effects in the long run. Perhaps the most noticeable sign of this in orcas is their dorsal fin. This is because it is one of the first things that can be seen on a whale when viewing them in an enclosed exhibit, and unlike the orcas of the wild, a whale in dorsal fin is usually prolapsed (onegreenplanet, 2012). A drooping dorsal fin can mean that the whale is malnourished or spends too much time floating close to the surface of a body of water, which is the case for orcas who are placed in tanks that are too small for them Brichner 2 (Canadian Federation of Humane Societies, 2017). Another sign of physical harm is the marks or scratches that whales acquire from being in such close quarters with each other all the time (onegreenplanet, 2012). These physical injuries can have mental effects as well; for example, the way trainers grind a teeth down in order to prevent them from harming other whales or humans (onegreenplanet, 2012). This can be a painful process for the whale, similar to the way humans declaw their cats, taking away essential and innate survival techniques. Not to mention the mental damage that is instilled once these orcas are captured from their families at such a young age. The process of capturing orcas from the wild requires infiltrating pods and seeking out the youngest and fittest of the groups (us.whales.org, 2017). This is not only detrimental to the reproduction habits of the whales that remain in the wild, but it is also harmful to the orca being captured as they can usually understand that they are being taken from their families and call out in panic after their mothers (us.whales.org, 2017). As mentioned before, the whale captured for the filming of in 2002, was only two years old when he began his career in theme park shows and finally an appearance with Disney (killerwhale.org, 2014). Keiko, the name given to the star of was released back into the ocean shortly after the release date but unfortunately could not adapt to the conditions of his own natural habitat (killer-whale.org, 2014). Keiko passed away after only a year of being in the ocean, in 2003 (killer-whale.org, 2014). Overall, using education and entertainment as an excuse to keep orcas captive is not significant enough to cause innocent animals harm. There are plenty of other ways to view these majestic creatures in their natural habitat, where they can be seen roaming freely and not being kept in an enclosure where been taught to do tricks for food. Ultimately, the way to get involved in the action of preventing more whales from being captured in the future is to join an organization. Unfortunately, one of the easiest or quickest Brichner 3 ways is to donate money. But even speaking out about it and working with non-profit organizations can go a long way. The Whale and Dolphin Conservation lets anyone adopt a whale which helps protect and donate to their fund for keeping orcas from being captured and exploited (us.whales.org, 2017). The Canadian Federation of Humane Societies is a global organization that helps focus on the theme parks and aquariums in other countries besides America that still hold whales captive and refuse to discuss any laws that will change that. There are also still many locations of theme parks and their companies that contain killer whale exhibits like Miami, San Diego and even London. But the most important thing to do to get involved is to speak out about the issue in some way. This is shown through a more recent example, Sea World. Sea World is an American marine-themed amusement park with numerous species of marine mammals and animals. Their most famous park is in Orlando, with the whale show called This show was widely popular among tourists and Floridians until the release of the documentary on Netflix. One of the problems brought to light in the film was that these killer whales are still wild animals even though they are put in close contact with humans for years. The documentary centers around the star of the Shamu show at Sea World Orlando, Tilikum (killer-whale.org, 2014). He had been reported to have a past of causing harm to the humans that he came in contact with, yet Sea World Orlando still took him in (killer- whale.org, 2014). Sea World Orlando is where he ended up killing a trainer there by accident (killerwhale.org, 2014). Although this made killer whales being kept in captivity receive more backlash, it took the release of a public documentary for a generation to watch it and want to take action. The effect of the documentary and the engagement of the public has caused Sea World to announce that they will be completely done with capturing whales from the wild, and their orca exhibit by 2020. But, as mentioned earlier, there is still work to be done since there are Brichner 4 countless other companies willing to capture more whales and exploit them for entertainment purposes. Now is the time to speak up. Brichner 5 Works Cited 10 Signs Whales and Dolphins Do NOT Belong in  One Green Planet. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Killer Whale Information. (2014, October 27). Retrieved April 17, 2017, from http://www.killerwhale.org/killer-whale-information The Fate of Captive  WDC, Whale and Dolphin Conservation. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.