Guilarte-Debras 1 Laura Guilarte-Debras Dennis ENC 1102 16th April 2017 Putting an end to Animal Testing According to People For The Ethical Treatment of Animals, more than 100 million animals are killed each year for research. Those animals include mice, rats, frogs, cats rabbits, hamsters, guinea pigs, monkeys, fish, and For The Ethical Treatment of The public should be more educated about the harm that is imposed on animals by cosmetic companies, with that knowledge be able to choose products from brands that do not believe in animal testing and do not honor it. To me, animal testing is completely unnecessary, as there are multiple cruelty-free methods that are just as effective for ensuring the safety of products and at the same time does not hurt animals. Many overlook the harm that is caused to animals through animal testing and do not realize what a tremendous difference that buying products that do not test on animals can make. Companies such as Sephora, Mac, Avon, CoverGirl, and much more, give money to laboratories to infest innocent animals with fleas, worms and diseases, then they force toxic chemicals onto their bodies to test if the products are effective. Once the test is done, the animals are killed. All of that is a little unethical, you think.? Guilarte-Debras 2 PETA, short for People for The Ethical Treatment of Animals, is a non-profit organization created to advocate against animal testing in 1980. Their goal is to spread awareness on the effects of animal testing and transition companies who do test their products on animals, toward cruelty-free ways. PETA had to shut down an investigation at the Professional Laboratory and Research Services, Inc. because they witnessed awful things being done to the animals that were being tested. investigators stated that companies paid the laboratory to infest dogs and cats with worms, fleas, and ticks and then force-feed them or smear their skin with toxic chemicals in tests for companion-animal investigators also had recorded evidence that the workers were hurting the animals in a way that were not a part of the animal testing process. They threw, and dragged dogs; lifted puppies by their throats; and screamed obscenities at Libby was one of nearly 250 dogs and cats that were rescued from this testing It is heartwarming to know that there are organizations willing to go out of their way to actually put an end to animal testing. When animal testing began in the they considered it to be the best and most reliable way to test the toxicity of the chemicals that were going to be used in the cosmetics but now, with all of the new resources and technology advancements it is safe to say that animal testing is something that we can move forward from, and leave behind. Many makeup companies such as Lush, Alba Botanica, The Body shop, and much more, do not test on They have found alternatives methods that ensure the safety of their products without having to test on innocent animals. Cruelty-free product testing methods include the use Guilarte-Debras 3 of, Organ-on-chips, computer modeling, human tissue/blood, artificial skin, and cell lines. The article to Animal in the Humane web page state that through the Skinethic test which is composed of artificial human skin, you can save thousands of rabbits each year from the painful skin and eye irritation tests and the Reduced Local Lymph Node Assay for skin allergy testing makes it possible to reduce animal testing by 75 percent as opposed to the traditional guinea pig and mouse test. There are so many successful makeup companies that do not test on animals therefore, It is hard to comprehend why so many companies still endorse animal testing. I believe that the problem of animal experimentation is that companies are trying to create the cheapest product and that often forces them to use low-quality ingredients. Those ingredients are no good for the animals, they yield awful effects on them, such as permanent burns, loss of sight, organ damage and death. These companies do not think about the animals, their biggest concern is their profit. In the article and the Beasts: The U.S Should Ban Testing Cosmetics on by Jim Moran, makes a statement that the Union has put in place a testing ban that prohibits animal testing on all cosmetic products and ingredients, and forbids marketing cosmetic products and ingredients that were tested on which makes you wonder, If the European Union can put a complete end to animal testing, why the United States do the same.? I believe that animal testing must come to an end, these animals do not deserve to be treated in such a cruel, unethical way when there are so many other alternatives that can ensure the safety of humans without the use of animal testing. Raising awareness on the effects of Guilarte-Debras 4 animal testing will eventually lead to its end. When people become more aware of the dangers behind animal experimentations, we can all begin to take small steps towards a future that is animal cruelty-free. By choosing to only buy products that do not perform animal testing, those companies will soon realize that they need to switch alternatives in order gain back the profit they were once making and the customers they once had. People should focus on buying products from companies such as Lush, The Body Shop, NYX, Smashbox rather than companies such as Sephora brand, MAC, Covergirl,..Etc. Of course not everyone buys makeup that is why it is important to know that animals do not only get tested on for makeup. Animals also get tested for dishwashing soap, shampoo and conditioner, body wash, sunscreen, and many more household items. A great way to help save the animals is to go to your local shopping store and instead of just picking out any shampoo or body wash, flip the item over and either look for a cruelty free stamp or a statement that says tested on just by doing that, we are a step closer to putting an end to animal testing. We should help save the animals not torture and torment them. Just like us humans, animals have rights too and if there are ways in which we can ensure their safety, there should be no reason why more companies are not willing to alter their techniques of testing. Although these companies test on animals because it is the cheapest method animal testing is not 100 percent reliable mice and rats to test the safety of drugs in humans is only accurate 43% of the (Cruelty Free International). The effects that the products have on animals and humans cannot be guaranteed due to genetic differences. According to Cruelty Free International animals do not get many of the diseases that humans do. Diseases such as disease, Guilarte-Debras 5 disease, most types of heart disease, and many types of cancer. Animal and human cells may be similar but they are not completely the same therefore companies that test on animals should realize that the urge for money should not be higher than the safety of our animals. Animal testing needs to come to an end, that is why raising awareness about the effects of animal testing is so important. If everyone really knew what these poor animals are going through when there are so many other alternatives out there that can take the agony away. As a result to that, maybe people will have a different perspective on the brands they are purchasing and begin buying products from companies that are produced by cruelty-free companies. There are other things that you can do to put animal testing to an end. You can sign the global Cruelty-Free pledge on the Humane Society website to show your support on banning animal testing for cosmetic products and ingredients, You can also become a Lab animal defender by donating to the humane society, your donation will help them expand their Be Cruelty-Free campaign which will help them save more animals and last but not least you can contact your favorite brands and urge them to make the leap to cruelty free. Doing these things will not make an instantaneous change but if everyone starts by doing at least one of them we can look forward to a future that is animal cruelty free. Guilarte-Debras 6 Works Cited Cosmetics Tests That Use  Humane Society of the United N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Experiments on Animals:  N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Life After the Laboratory:  N.p., 14 Oct. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Moran, Jim, and Paul A. Locke. Beauty and the Beasts: The U.S. Should Ban Testing Cosmetics on  N.p., 27 May 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Alternatives to Animal  Humane Society of the United N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Apr. 2017. Cruelty Free N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Society, New England Anti-Vivisection. Animals in Science /  N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Apr. 2017.