Hamza Elhamdadi Project 3 Intermediate Draft Approximately 40 million immigrants have come to the United States for a better life. Many of them, especially those who come to the United States through illegal means, experience sizable difficulty adjusting to their new situation. Jessica Hernandez, a teenage immigrant from Mexico her immigration status was illegal, so things easy. It was hard for mom to find a She speak up about it because she want to cause a stir and risk getting fired or (Bianchi). story resonates with many immigrants including those who migrated legally to the U.S as well as U.S citizens. Nonetheless, the ability to provide for family is severely hindered for undocumented immigrants out of fear of deportation. The American Civil Liberties Union is an organization that advocates change in the understanding of basic human rights to encompass undocumented immigrants and supports legal rights for said undocumented immigrants. The United States spends approximately $1.84 billion deporting and detaining immigrants, 83% of whom were not given a hearing before a judge before their fate was decided for them (aclu.org). To help, the ACLU uses impact litigation, advocacy, and public outreach protect the rights and liberties of (aclu.org). Allowing the current immigrants to work and live in the United States would provide economic and social benefit to the country. Opponents of immigration argue that immigrants take jobs from American citizens. This is, however, untrue. The Small Business Administration states that immigrants are 30% more likely to start a business than non-immigrants. Source: Small Business Administration analysis of 2010 Current Population Survey Similarly, according to the Fiscal Policy Institute, immigrant-owned small business employed million people in 2007 and generated greater than $776 billion per year, which is approximately 0.06% of the U.S. GDP (Furman). From these statistics, it can be deduced that the United States should not limit the number of immigrants allowed to enter the country but should rather, if anything, increase the number, as immigration is beneficial to the economy and the job market. With comprehensive immigration reform (i.e. immigration laws that allow for an increased number of legal immigrants), the number of jobs available for people in the United States would increase due to increased consumer spending and a demand for more businesses. Moreover, students like Jessica Hernandez provide the United States with more individuals in high education positions. In case, she wants to attend Harvard and become a psychologist to help others with their problems. The deportation of such immigrants to their countries of origin would deprive the United States of many of the scholars, doctors, engineers, and innovators that could influence the country in many positive ways. According to the Census Bureau, 33% of engineers, 27% of mathematicians, statisticians, and computer scientists, and 24% of physical scientists are immigrants (Furman). Immigrants help develop some of the most cutting-edge companies and technologies including Google, eBay, Yahoo and Intel. These companies also help to increase the number of available jobs in the United States. Individuals might understand the positive importance and impact that immigrants have on the economical and social aspects of the United States. However, simply knowing is not enough to change negative attitudes towards immigrants in the American government as well as individual communities. One must become involved at a personal level in the situation and provide their support should the movement wish to succeed. The ACLU provides many ways to help support the immigrant cause including monthly or one-time donations that go towards reforms in government policy on immigration as well as public rallies to spread awareness. The organization also provides petitions on its website for changes regarding immigrant families and children that one can sign and petition the president to create change in policies. Individuals can meet and make friends with immigrants and their families in their community to make them feel included. Likewise, individuals with economic stability can provide a place to stay for legal, struggling immigrants and refugees in the United States. At the very least, one can simply spread the word about immigrant and refugee rights amongst their friends and acquaintances and on social media such as Facebook and Twitter. Particularly, ACLU National is active on both of these social media. Ultimately, immigrants positively impact the United States in many ways. For example, all six of the 2016 Nobel Prize winners were immigrants, including Bengt Holstrom and Oliver Hart, joint winners of the economics award. By taking action, the people of the United States can show the government how immigrants are truly a benefit to the country both economically and socially. Works Cited Bianchi, Jane. is an The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc. 20 November 2013. Web. 11 April 2017. at American Civil Liberties Union. ACLU. 19 January 2017. Web. 12 April 2017. Furman, Jason. Ways Immigrants Help Build and Strengthen Our The White House Archives. USA.gov, Inc. 12 July 2012. Web. 12 April 2017. Ivanova, Irina. impact on the U.S. economy in 7 CBS News. CBS Interactive Inc. 10 February 2017. Web. 30 April 2017. Lusher, Adam. six of 2016 Nobel Prize Winners are Independent News. Independent Inc. 11 October 2016. Web. 30 April 2017.