Ibarra 1 Ivan Ibarra Professor Bob Botkin ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Project 3 Essay Throughout the world people of all walks of life are exploited in some way. It is something that is not unique to our times. Throughout the existence of mankind many different groups of people have been exploited. This stems from a power struggle. When people think of exploited laborers they think of foreign third world countries. Rarely do they ever think of the United States as being a country where millions of workers are exploited. America for many is a land of freedom and opportunity but to a certain group of people that is not the case. In America the agricultural industry is prospering off the backs of millions of migrant farm workers. These farm workers are in a way the modern day slaves of America. They have horrible working conditions, are paid so little illegal, and work many hours to compensate for the poor pay. The people of America need to be more informed on this issue in order for change to occur and Change is desperately needed for these Families. The conditions are inherently going to be a little tough considering that farm work is done outside. But the toughness of the conditions do not stop there. For one, farmers have to work all day no matter the weather. While in Florida farm workers are out in the 95 degree weather. These farm workers are at risk of heat strokes and other heat induced conditions since they do not have any sort of shade. These workers are not given breaks so they work tirelessly in the heat. In other areas, for example Ohio, workers are out in the cold harvesting crops no matter the weather. Another issue in the working conditions for the farm workers is the health risks due Ibarra 2 to pesticides. Most farmers use pesticides on their crops in order to protect them from harmful insects. But the pesticides are not only harmful to insects but are also harmful to humans when exposed to them. The farm workers can be exposed to the pesticides in many ways. One, the pesticides are usually sprayed onto the crops via an airplane. Farm workers usually work all days of the week all day so there is no time where the airplanes can spray the pesticides while the workers are away so they do so while the workers are working. Whether they spray the pesticides directly over the workers or they spray nearby fields the workers in both scenarios can be exposed to the pesticides by direct contact or a drift. A drift occurs when wind will pick up the pesticide chemicals and blow them onto the farm workers. The pesticides can also contaminate kids who play in newly sprayed fields since the children live on the farms in the housing provided by the farmers. Exposure to the pesticides has both long term and short term effects on the workers. As stated in this article by Farmworker Justice short term effects include eye irritation, dizziness, nausea and vomiting, and and long term effects include neurological disorders, hormonal and reproductive health problems, birth defects and All these injustices exist because the farm workers do not have a voice and are afraid to speak up for their themselves. They are afraid to because most are illegal immigrants and could be reported to immigration by the Farm owners who are aware of the legal status of their employees. This is where the power struggle comes into play and is why these conditions are still a reality for many farm workers today. Now, within mind of the conditions the farm workers have to work in, one would think that the pay would compensate for the working conditions but it is quite the opposite. The majority of farm workers are paid by a piece rate system. In this system farm workers are paid by how much they harvest. For example the piece rate for oranges in florida is 85 cents per 90- Ibarra 3 pound box of oranges. So if a worker were to pick 767 pounds of oranges in an hour they would only make $7.25 in that hour. Those numbers are not right. How can someone harvest 767 pounds of a crop and only get $7.25 in return. Those margins expose the exploitation being done by the farm owners. Farm work is the lowest paid occupation in America. Farm workers in America with a family of four make $16,400 total income. To put that in perspective the poverty line for a family of four in America is $22,000. These people who work for the farms live under the poverty line while working one of the hardest and most dangerous jobs in the United States of America where there are more deaths because of the work conditions for farm workers than in the military and mining. The death rate for these farm workers is 22 people per 100,000. Most jobs that have horrible work conditions and are very dangerous have better than average payouts to compensate for the hardship. For example, fisherman on average get paid $30,220 a year. These fisherman men have to fight huge storms and be on call day and night to catch fish and have a high death rate. Their pay is almost double of what a family of four earns from farm working. Also keep in mind that the children of farm workers also work. So the income of essentially four people is half of one fisherman. The pay these workers get is a disgrace and is illegal but there is little to no regulation over these conditions. Furthermore, the reason that farm workers are exploited and subjected to these kind of conditions and pay is because half are illegal immigrants and they are afraid of being deported if they speak up. For this reason many Americans are okay with the treatment the farm workers recieve because they see illegal immigrant as criminals. Illegal immigrants are under the law committing a crime when they cross the border but when you think about what it is they are actually doing and for what reasons people would most likely not see them as criminals. They cross over illegally because the process to get papers is a very long process that takes years. Ibarra 4 Years that they have to waste because they have family to raise and they come in search for a better life for them but most importantly for their children. When the illegal immigrants are here they take one of the hardest and most dangerous jobs and barely get by in order for their children to have a better opportunity. Some believe that they are a burden financially as they think illegal immigrants get benefits from the government and pay no taxes. This is not true in fact the opposite occurs. Illegal immigrants pay taxes whenever they buy things in America and taxes are taken out of all the farm workers pay checks while they receive no benefits from the government. On average illegal immigrants contribute 12 billion dollars in taxes each year. This is an issue in America and not just with the Hispanic population of America. It is the job of America to adopt this controversial issue as their own. This issue is about justice and equality for all. Knowing this information Americans are to either look the other way or take a stand for what they believe is right. It takes a nation of people to change this, but it starts with one. Be the difference you want to see. Ibarra 5 Works Cited Productivity in the USDA ERS Agricultural Productivity in the U.S.N., n.d. Web. 03 Feb. 2017. Wages National Farm Worker Ministry. N.p., 03 Feb 2017. US Labor Laws For Farmworker Justice. Farmworker Justice, n.d. Web. Feb. 2017.