XU 1 LEI XU ENC 1102 Professor Lay 30 April 2017 Charitable Institution in Social Media As social media becomes widely used in the world, we can access more information. And all that is because we are living in a peaceful country. Peaceful and strong national conditions allow us to receive education and thus we can use advanced technology to learn more and become a better person. However, while we are enjoying our time, millions of vulnerable children are suffering somewhere else. The most convenient way to help those vulnerable children is to join the charitable organization. The objectives of non-profit advertising are quite different from those of profit advertising. Reed et.al stated that the goal of non-profit organization is to persuade consumers to purchase products and services, whereas the former intends to motivate donors to give either time or money (189). Charitable organizations can be classified into profit and non-profit organizations. As a college student, we have more free time than available money on hand, we can do volunteering in non-profit charity sector to help the vulnerable children, and have a better understanding about the purpose of the charity organization and who they are helping with. Moreover, volunteering and work with non-profit charitable organization could help us understand the situation of those vulnerable children. Through participating in charitable organizations, we can help those vulnerable children and can gain new experience of life which allows us to become a kind-hearted and patient person. What is more, we could also donate money, give a presentation to acknowledge and appeal to more XU 2 students in this society to participate with charitable organization and to help those vulnerable children. Millions of children around the world are suffering while we are enjoying our lives. In the underdeveloped and developing countries, a huge number of children are suffering from hunger and sometimes they do not even have any shelter to live. For example, in India, almost 20-30% people are poor. Most of them do not have enough food to eat and shelter to live. Sometimes parents fail to fulfil their wishes so they decide to abandon them. Many children are not getting proper education because their parents have no money to spend on their education. There are many negative effects of poverty among children. Children suffer from many diseases because of poverty. Jeanne et.al stated that poor children suffer from many occurrences of unfavorable health and other negative outcomes compared with rich children (57). Poverty affects health negatively. Sometime children cannot get enough food and clean water which results in suffering from diseases like diarrhea and typhoid. Not only in the developing countries but also in the developed countries, children are still suffering from chronic diseases because of poverty. In the United States, poor children suffer from adverse health conditions compared with nonpoor children (Jeanne, 57). So, in some case their parents choose to abandon their children because of the poverty. What is more, if we spend money for children who are suffering, it can give them happiness. There are millions of children who are suffering because of many reasons. For example, their family may have abandoned them or they were born with a poor fate. If we donate for the poor children it will give them happiness and the hope to survive. The children who are suffering are some of the neediest people. Our donation can help them. Furthermore, when we donate we can promote generosity in and reduce the poverty. In short, if we start to XU 3 support non-profit charitable organizations, we will feel grateful and can make the world to become a better place. Most of the time, children live under poor environment do not have enough clothes to wear. Especially in the winter, the children suffer from many deceases due to cold weather. The reason behind is, they do not have shelter and clothes to wear. Sometimes, children die from the diseases because of that. Slyke et.al stated that, motivation is an important thing in understanding charitable (203). A small donation can make a big change. There is a famous quote by Mother Teresa where she stated that, you feed a hundred of people then feed just We are having better lives and we are getting all the important things which we need to survive. Millions of children are deprived of the rights because of many reasons such as their misfortune, place of birth and the most important reason is poverty. On the other hand, compared with them, we were born in a comparatively wealth family and could get most of things that we need. So that if we share our happiness with those children, we can experience more pleasure and it brings more meaning to our life because we can help others in need. In the article, exploratory study of existential guilt appeals in charitable Lwin and research has shown that, evokes through the result of comparison between well-being and own (1469). When we can see that vulnerable children in their surrounding leading a miserable but we are living a happy life then guilt arises so donation and volunteering are good ways to get rid of these negative feelings. To conclude, as a stakeholder for charitable originations, I will apply all the information and realities of those venerable children in that I have mentioned in this paper and identify the prospects and motivate more students like us to donate. Moreover, I will also engage the other students who are not donating by informing them about the reasons they should donate. I will use XU 4 posters and brochures and social media to grab attention about this issue. Sometimes, students overlook vulnerable condition because of many reasons. I will identify the reasons and I will also show them that a little donation can make a big difference. Overall, I will encourage them to donate even only a little bit if possible. In world, millions of children are not getting proper food and millions of children are living a poor life. If we donate for the children who are living in poverty, then the world would be a better place to live. XU 5 Works Cited Brooks-Gunn, Jeanne, and Greg J. Duncan. The effects of poverty on  The future of children (1997): 55-71. Dunn, Elizabeth W., Lara B. Aknin, and Michael I. Norton. Spending money on others promotes  Science 319.5870 (2008): 1687-1688. Hudsonn, Sophie. Emotive Appeals Effective in Persuading Students to Give To Charity? Guardian.Guardian News and Media, 02 Sept 2013. Web. 16. Apr 2017. Hibbert, Sally, et al. Guilt appeals: Persuasion knowledge and charitable  Psychology & Marketing 24.8 (2007): 723-742. Lwin, Michael, and Ian Phau. An exploratory study of existential guilt appeals in charitable  Journal of Marketing Management 30.13-14 (2014): 1467-1485. Reed, Americus, Karl Aquino, and Eric Levy. Moral identity and judgments of charitable  Journal of Marketing 71.1 (2007): 178-193. Van Slyke, David M., and Arthur C. Brooks. Why do students give? New evidence and strategies for nonprofit  The american review of public administration 35.3 (2005): 199-222. XU 6