Sell 1 Vanessa Sell Professor Bennington ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Availability of Technology for the Classroom Education is important to everyone. No matter where you want to go in life, you must have some sort of education. Whether these ideals are to be taught in school or at home, you must develop certain philosophes in order to be successful in this world. However, the most common form of relaying information is through technology. Almost all companies and businesses use computers to further their business. Now imagine how children feel when they go to school to get an education, yet, they receive the vital tools they need to excel in the future. Those vital tools, are introduction and understanding of technology. With the current threat of the lack of funding many schools face, this nightmare will become reality for many students. Large corporations, such as Target, create programs to help raise funds so that they can donate supplies to these underprivileged schools, however, there is never a fund for the donation of technology. Target can easily collaborate with Microsoft to create a program that allows a portion of donations to go towards the funding for technology and technological software. With Target and help, children across the United States can have their educations furthered by the outreach of technology. Target has provided one billion dollars towards education programs; has provided over 8 million books, 87 million dollars in local grants to support field trips and the arts, and over 14 million (Target Corporate). Target should care about the technological Sell 2 gap, because they are heavily involved in education programs and needs. Yet, they are blinded by the aspect that the children are missing the most important product of society, which is technology. With a deeper understanding on how Target can directly influence the school system, they could provide much more than school supplies, they could provide these children with a future. Technology has only just recently developed, but it has been on a rapid increase in the daily usage of the everyday American since the mid (Computer History 1). Technology first started appearing in schools in the mid to late (Computer History 2). Since this rapid increase, technology has become more focused and centered in everyday life. opinion about the ability of tech to enhance learning is universal; 93 percent believe that interactive whiteboards enrich classroom education and 81 percent feel the same way about (MindShift). Teachers have the ability to mold and shape the lives of our future generations, they should have access to these tools to help create more stable and interactive learning environments. Technology makes teaching less complicated, and it allows the teachers to have more time to focus on more important matters. Technology makes everyday life easier, and it clearly plays an important role in society, but what makes it so important to the education of the future generation? It is clear now, that technology is a major influence in modern times, and it will only continue its uphill climb. In order to ensure that we a prosperous future, we need to invest in the future generation. Technology has grown and advanced in ways that no one thought was possible, and it did it in such a short amount of time. Introducing technology at a young age, allows a student to grow and learn the basics, so that when their young creative minds are at the peak of perfection, they will be able to implement their ideals and use them for the advancement Sell 3 of society. When these opportunities for learning present themselves, most children can explore these outlets in many ways that adults would not have thought of. Therefore, technology should be encouraged from a young age, basically from the start of their educational lives. Technology also can benefit just about anyone, it considers that not everyone can learn in that one specific way. It allows outlets for many different options of learning and teaching. Kathleen Gulley, a scholar at California State University: Sacramento states that are important in education because they force us to reconsider how people learn, how they are empowered, and what the nature of learning and useful information (Gulley). She also encourages people to look at the full spectrum of learning, and states that cannot avoid the presence of computers in our Technology has its pros and cons, but the advantages outweigh the disadvantages. Microsoft, everyone has heard of them. Most people know that they play a part in almost all technology. Yet, most people know that they play a huge role in the day to day educational programs. Microsoft created a program called Youthspark, is designed to help create educational and economic opportunities for children around the world, in 2012. According to the company, it has served 227 million young people since (Guardian). This program is designed to help teach and train youth and young adults in the ways of technology so that they can move forward in life. Microsoft has also donated 86.5 million dollars towards education (Watson). This money is donated to the public-school fund to help implement technology into the schools. However, most of it does not go far; because this fund is so large it is hard to make sure it impacts everyone. With influence and alliance with Target, these corporations can heavily change the way that technology is brought about and taught in schools. Sell 4 How can these corporations make such an impact? First, Microsoft and Target can team up to create a program that allows initiatives and already existing program, Youthspark, to create a program that initiates technology into school. Once they have combined their forces, they will have more money and dedication so that their initiative can reach everyone. It is quite simple on how just anyone can help. Switching your grocery shopping to Target allows Target to create more revenue and thus allowing them to be able to donate more. Also, encouraging Microsoft will help future schools to want to include their programs. In addition, when the to sales happen, if you are able you should donate what you can. If people donate more of the school necessities then it allows Target to have more freedom to become involved in the technology. Technology is the forefront of society and of the future society. Technology is only going to become more advanced and specialized, and we need to ensure that our children and the future generations to come are prepared for this technological world. We have come this far without technology playing a huge part in education, now imagine how far we could go when we encouraged and initiated technology into schooling. Technology allows us to create and further so much more. Once technology is implemented into everyday education, there is no limits as to what can be created. So, Microsoft and Target have an important role when it comes to bringing about this tremendous change. Anyone can help with this mission, it is a simple change that can easily be enacted. Technology can only change the world even more than it already has, so be a part of the change. Sell 5 Works Cited Barseghian, Tina. Lack of Funding Creates Barrier to Using Tech in  MindShift. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Center, Microsoft News. ISTE and Microsoft collaborate to provide new school planning and professional learning  News Center. N.p., 28 June 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Computers Timeline of Computer  Computer History Museum. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Gulley, Kathleen P. Pros and Cons of Technology in the  Diss. California State U, Sacramento, 2003. Abstract. Dr. Rosemary Papalewis, 2003. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Watson, Bruce. 10 companies spending millions on  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 14 Jan. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. We Did it! Target Gives $1 Billion for  Target Corporate. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.