Bernardo Osellame Professor Nancy Carr ENC1101 25 January 2017 Smoking The prevalence of tobacco use on campus is startling, yet the detrimental effects of such behavior seem unnoticed by bystanders and consumers alike. The smell is only the tip of the iceberg in regards to detrimental effects, and the ongoing tolerance of its use is backwards and unfathomable. Millions have died from the detrimental effects of tobacco, most due to lung cancer and cancer stemming from it post metastasis. Reports such as those cited in this paper discuss mortality rates, as well as historical consumption and cancer rates, but most importantly, highlighting successful implementations of anti smoking smoking programs on an international scale. Given the prior, just how negative of an effect does smoking have on our health, and what measures governments must take to curtail the rising issue? The repeated use of tobacco products is a direct and significant cause of lower life life expectancies, and unless curtailed, will prove a financially untenable public health catastrophe with the potential to strip the availability of healthcare a governmental level. Bibliography United States. US Department of Health and Public Services. Surgeon General. The Health Consequences of Smoking-50 Years of Progress. N.p.: n.p., n.d. Surgeongeneral.gov. U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.surgeongeneral.gov/library/reports/50-years-of-progress/full-report.pdf>.The Office of the Surgeon General published this massive, 1081 page report documenting every single data point available for smoking. It covers programs to lessen in it on an international scale, as well as cancer rates and cigarette consumption rates. The amount of data is massive and unfathomable. The implications of the report cannot be ignored for any reason whatsoever, as the report is definitive proof of the negative effects of smoking. The source stems directly from the office of the surgeon general, which is widely considered a penultimate source regarding human health related reports, so there is little doubt regarding its credibility. The comprehensiveness of the report outright negates all other sources here with regards to necessity, as it contains everything needed to verify the thesis. Motschman, Courtney A., and Stephen T. Tiffany. Cognitive Regulation of Smoking Behavior within a Cigarette: Automatic and Nonautomatic  Psychology of Addictive Behaviors 30 (2016): 494-99. USF LIbrary. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=6&sid=740dfc88-267d-422f-b653- 268d2a3e5e61%40sessionmgr102&hid=117&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#AN=201 6-06812-001&db=pdh>. This medical journal entry highlights higher order neural activity in heavy and occasional smokers, analyzing the processes which govern smoking behavior in those who are tobacco dependent. The journal describes such processes as automated in heavy chain smokers, and semi-autonomous in occasional smokers. The connection of increasingly automated neural processes, in combination with the detrimental effects of smoking, highlights the dangerous neurochemical changes which occur after prolonged use. This entry, like all others on this list, stems from as peer-reviewed medical journal, therefore reliability is second to none. The source helps to explain patterns of smoking behavior, thereby tying in to the thesis. Jackson, Kristina M., Suzanne M. Colby, and Kenneth J. Sher. Daily Patterns of Conjoint Smoking and Drinking in College Student  Psychology of Addictive Behaviors 24.3 (2010): 424-35. PsycARTICLES. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This study seeks to examine the amount of smoking which takes place during alcohol consumption by light smokers and heavy smokers (who fell into the category of college students), and discovered light smokers were more likely to consume more cigarettes during alcohol consumption due to social cues and environmental factors, while heavy smokers base their smoking on internal, neuro-chemical cues. The study highlights a key reason for the proliferation of smoking during college years by college students. Copious consumption of alcohol, paired with experimentation typical during college years, increases the prevalence of smoking, and increases the potential for light smokers to shift to heavy smoking habits, lowering life expectancies and paving the way for a public health collapse due to tobacco affiliated illness treatment cost. This peer reviewed medical journal entry covers the most likely period of time smoking habits will develop, thereby tying in to the thesis by explaining a continuing source of the trend. Denise, Indu B. Ahluwalia, Eugene Pun, Shaoman Yin, Krishna Palipudi, and Lazarous Mbulo. Current Cigarette Smoking, Access, and Purchases from Retail Outlets Among Students Aged 13-15 Years - Global Youth Tobacco Survey, 45 Countries, 2013 and  MMWR: Morbidity & Mortality Weekly Report 65.34 (2016): 898-901. CINAHL. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This study seeked to record and graph data regarding tobacco and cigarette consumption and accessibility for children between the ages of 13 and 15, and use the data to develop effect methods to curtail its use in United States and the world abroad. The survey covered Western and Eastern Europe, down to the northern region of Africa. Half of the tobacco products purchased were individual cigarettes, while the other were whole packs. The prevalence averaged between 3% and 29%, fluctuating to extremes at 90% in Montenegro, and slightly lower in Pakistan. The article connects to the detrimental effects of tobacco use by highlighting the long- term compounding health effects should smoking begins at such a young age. In order to combat the tobacco epidemic, tobacco availability and distribution to teenage populations must fall, tying into the thesis by explaining the future pressures on health care systems due to early tobacco consumption. Conner, Mark, and Andrea R. Higgins. Long-term Effects of Implementation Intentions on Prevention of Smoking Uptake among Adolescents: A Cluster Randomized Controlled  Health Psychology 29.5 (2010): 529-38. PsycARTICLES. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The research aimed to examine the effect of implementation intentions on adolescent smokers, testing its viability to lower adolescent smoking rates, more specifically cigarette turn down rates. The study utilized self reporting and objective measures to determine the reduction in smoking, or the effectiveness of implementation intentions on reducing the likelihood of future smoking related mortality rates. The research connects quite well with the thesis, as the intention of this paper is to highlight the detrimental effects of the practice, and to reduce its prevalence in the first place. The study is credible, it has been peer reviewed and verified by reputable institutions and authored by accredited health professionals. Denise, Indu B. Ahluwalia, Eugene Pun, Shaoman Yin, Krishna Palipudi, and Lazarous Mbulo. Current Cigarette Smoking, Access, and Purchases from Retail Outlets Among Students Aged 13-15 Years - Global Youth Tobacco Survey, 45 Countries, 2013 and  MMWR: Morbidity & Mortality Weekly Report 65.34 (2016): 898-901. CINAHL. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. In addition to examining the rapid onset of smoking in college, and the rapid expansion of the tobacco industry, the study attempts to document the disproportionately large amount of asian american students smoking once in college. In the case of foreign exchange students, the onset of smoking is associated with acculturation and perceived notions of behavior in the United States. In addition, the onset of smoking strongly correlates with other forms of substance abuse, such as drugs and alcohol. The study pertains to the current thesis regarding its detrimental health effects by highlighting the usage of tobacco during college years and the future, and is authored by reputable, peer-reviewed, scientific sources