Student: Chakar Thompson Instructor: N. Carr Class: ENC 1101.005 Date: 01/29/2017 A comparative look at the Effects Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) have on the environment. Whether our favorite type of tomato or the type of material our clothes are made from. At some point in our life we have stumbled upon something that has been genetically engineered to suit our needs. Genetic engineering (GE) or Recombinant DNA cloning refers to the altering the genetic material in a way that does not occur naturally by mating and/or natural recombination to produce a specific trait within an organism. Although GE sounds very technical, this was a practice that began around 10000 years ago with the arrival of our early farmers and herdsmen. This was seen when farmers crossbred animals such as different breeds of cattle or sheep, to produce offspring that were stronger, healthier, or had better meat. As centuries past, this technique has been perfected on a molecular level. In 1953 the double helix structure of DNA was purposed and in the late restriction enzymes were discovered by Stewart Linn & Werner Arber. These enzymes DNA at specific sites and leave in the DNA to allow fragments of DNA with a specific trait to be into the DNA This was the precursor to the first recombinant DNA cloning experiment using restriction enzymes done by Herbert Boyer & Stanley Cohen in 1973. Shortly after this GE became very popular in the scientific community and by 1975 it came under great scrutiny from politicians and religious individuals. Debates arose proposing that GE was unethical and this could also create diseases. As a result I hope to investigate the following, Are harmful or more beneficial to future agriculture and food security? (i) Kuiper, H. A., & Davies, H. V. (2010). The safe foods risk analysis framework suitable for gmos? A Case Study. Food Control, 1662-1676. doi:10.1016/j.foodcont.2010.02.011. Kuiper, H. A., & Davies, H. V. talk about the current EU regulatory framework for risk analysis of genetically modified (GM) crop cultivation and marketing. Furthermore the risk assessment strategies for GM crops and derived food/feed as designed by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) are described on which international agreement exists. Existing flaws in the EU regulatory framework for GMOs have been identified and proposals are put forward to improve current risk analysis procedures for GMOs by taking the Foods Risk Analysis into account. The methods of analysis for the safe foods framework describe an interactive decision-making process with four distinct stages i.e. framing, assessment, evaluation, and risk management. I think these proposed changes in current risk analyses practises may contribute to restore consumer confidence in risk analysis process of GMOs in the EU. Hence this paper is geared towards economists, consumers and GM crop farmers. This paper is well researched and based on first person observation from authoritative organisations. This paper contains no bias because it is a risk assessment study based on empirical data. (ii) Sax, J. K., & Doran, N. (2016). Food labeling and consumer associations with health, safety, and environment. Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, 44(4), 630-638. doi:10.1177/107311051668480 In this article Sax and Doran discuss food labeling requirements and laws in America in relation to preferences and associations with health, safety, and environment, and it mentions the use of the word natural on food labels and calls for food labeling measures dealing with genetically modified organisms/genetically engineered (GMO/GE) products. GE food labeling law is addressed, along with the U.S. National Bioengineered Food Disclosure Standard. Sectors of the public and consumer advocacy groups are increasingly calling for a variety of food labeling measures, particularly regarding food derived from genetically modified organisms/genetically engineered (GMO/GE) and the use of the label The potential for new labeling regulations raises questions about the information that consumers either receive or believe they receive from such labels. I see this as piece as very subjective because it utilised articles in the popular press and advocates of mandatory labeling, to cite the right of consumers to know the contents of their food. This placed special emphasis on consumer concerns for health, safety, and the environment. The purpose of the current study was to examine the extent to which consumers associate health, safety, and the environment with specific labels and specific food products. Hence I would find this article would be best suited for scholars and officials in public food health and safety. This may also prove useful for consumers and businesses selling/ manufacturing GM foods. (iii)Paes de Andrade, P., Lima F. J., Colli, W., Dellagostin,O. A., Finardi-Filho, F., Hiroyuki Hirata, M., & ... Bodanese Zanettini, M. H. (2016). Use of transgenic aedes aegypti in Brazil: Risk perception and assessment. Bulletin Of The World Health Organization, 94(10), 766-771. doi:10.2471/BLT.16.173377 In this article Paes de Andrade, P. etal describe the OX513A strain of Aedes aegypti mosquito, which was developed by the British company Oxitec (GE). They note that this GMO express a self-limiting transgene that prevents larvae from developing to adulthood. In April 2014, the Brazilian National Technical Commission on Biosafety completed a risk assessment of OX513A and concluded that the strain did not present new biological risks to humans or the environment and could be released in Brazil. At that point, Brazil became the first country to approve the unconstrained release of a genetically modified mosquito. During the assessment, the commission made and systematically analyzed a comprehensive list of the perceived hazards. I think this risk analysis proved that release of the transgenic mosquitoes would still be both safe and of great potential value in the control of diseases spread by Ae. aegypti, such as chikungunya, dengue and Zika. This may be useful as a source for the positive effects of using GMOs. The level of research put in this decreases bias because it is from an experiment-credible source. However it becomes open to subjectivity because arguments are from Brazilian authors and Oxitec only. I believe this information is best suited for public health organisations ,ecologist, biologists and genetic engineering students or forums of the latter. (iv)Deng, P., Zhou, X., Zhou, P., Du, Z., Hou, H., Yang, D., & ... Yang, Y. (2008). Edible safety requirements and assessment standards for agricultural genetically modified organisms. Food And Chemical Toxicology, Deng, P. etal describe methods of framing the the edible safety requirements and assessment of agricultural genetically modified organisms (agri-GMOs) for Shenzhen Special Economic Zone in the Republic of China. It provides a set of systematic criteria for edible safety requirements and the assessment process for agri-GMOs. It first, focuses on the degree of risk and impact of different agri-GMOs, where hazard grades for toxicity, allergenicity, anti-nutrition effects, and unintended effects were created. Then it assesses the edible safety of the agri-GMO. To evaluate the applicability of these criteria with other safety assessment systems for GMOs ,they selected some agri-GMOs (soybean, maize, potato, capsicum and yeast) as cases to put through the new assessment system, and compared the results with the previous assessments. I think this use of comparison helps to develop a credible source of information. However this is open to objectivity as the authors are Chinese and this study was not done in another country. Bias is also seen in the fact that this paper is only influenced Chinese regulations on GMOs. I believe the information from this article is best used in Chinese food health and safety organizations and farmers doing agri-GMOs. (v)Lee, M. (2008). EU Regulation of GMOs : Law and Decision Making for a New Technology. Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar Publishing. In this book, Lee.M attempts to examine what is at stake in the regulation of GMOs. Chapter 2 outlines the main pressures faced in the regulation of agricultural biotechnology, the range of hopes and concerns raised by the technology. The safety of GMOs is not straightforward, but this chapter explores a related and less precise category of political, ethical and socioeconomic concerns about GMOs. These include distributional issues,food security, and biocentric questions about the integrity of nature. This book intends to place unbiased opinions on the topic of GMO regulation. The information presented here occurs only through the eyes of the author and what he observes. Lee. M. brackets himself from the subject ,hence this piece provides deep critical information in layman terms. This book is most suitable for governmental health/ agricultural agencies involved in regulating GMOs and students studying the use of GMO technology. (vi) Russell, A. W. (2008). GMOs and their contexts: A comparison of potential and actual performance of GM crops in a local agricultural setting. In this paper Russell A. W. argues that genetically modified organisms (GMOs) have inherent potential to contribute to socially and environmentally sustainable agriculture by virtue of their Their actual and how this contributes to sustainability depends on the of technology and context. While much attention has been given to the design context of GMOs, this paper considers the influence of the application context and of users. A case study investigating the use of insect-resistant and herbicide-tolerant GM cotton in the cotton-growing region of New South Wales in Australia is presented. The study was based on focus groups with farmers and other stakeholders in a cotton-growing community. It demonstrated a range of direct and indirect effects of GM cotton use, both positive and negative for sustainability, and the ways in which these effects were influenced by the local social context. The influences of the biotechnology industry context, in limiting the contributions that gene technologies can make to sustainability, were also considered, and remedies suggested. This paper also argues that the polarity of the GM debate is hindering progress on these issues, and that a more balanced approach to our analysis of GMOs is necessary in order to fully understand, and to influence, their role in the future of rural spaces. This is best suited for political administrations and scholars weighing the effects of (vii) Ronald, P. (2013). The truth about (cover story). Boston Review, 38(5), 16-32. In this piece Ronald , P. debates the pros and cons of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) as food, and discuss issues such as genetic engineering (GE) for disease and pest resistance in crops, food security, and GMO food labeling proposals in the U.S. Traditional plant breeding, the agricultural company Monsanto, and herbicide resistance are discussed, as well as crops such as cotton, papaya, and bananas. Consumer attitudes, grocery chain Whole Foods, and agricultural laws are also discussed. The Boston Review is a very credible source of information as this piece which gives an unbiased opinion on GMOs.This paper is highly subjective as it seeks to uncover the facts associated with the use of GM foods. It would be a useful source of information for food/ nutrition organisations, health/ fitness clubs and dieticians.