Project 2: Tracing conversations over time Ancient Egypt: How ancient Egyptian buildings are still standing today To understand how the pyramids are still intact today we must first understand and know the materials that were used to build the pyramids in the first place. According to D.Klemm and R.klemm the Egyptians could only use the materials that were available to them at that time and place, and the Nile river mud bricks were the most important raw materials used in the stones to build the pyramids. Other stones were also used to build the pyramids but not all of them were as accessible as the Nile mud bricks. Klemm (2001) et. al believe that, Egypt was regarded as the out of because stone was the most important raw material used during the different periods of Pharaonic Egypt until Graeco-Roman and Arab (p.1) which was the reason that most of the Egyptian buildings are made out of stones. The different types of stones in the pyramids were mainly for the different levels of the pyramids, each type of stone was used for a specific height in the pyramid as shown in figure 5 to sustain the weight of the other stones on top and the pressure of air. Egypt is located in an area where desert storms/dust storms were common so the wind and the dust it carries affected the buildings that the Egyptians made. The building that was damaged the most from the severe weather of Egypt was the sphynx. The sphynx was very damaged through the years since it was built and had to be reconstructed for the sake of the sphynx or it will collapse. Since it was built the sphynx had several reconstructions and according to Hussein (2009) et. al, restorations performed by Baraize were the most prominent, as they included protecting the back of the neck, the lateral support of the head. In addition, they included constructing a wall from limestone blocks to retain the sand along the northern side of the Sphinx. Selim Hassan dismantled the wall in the (p.3). Also, the Egyptian built the sphynx in an interesting way as El-shishiny stated Great Sphinx was buried by sand and was cleared several times throughout its history. Therefore, this work also addresses the less understood, yet important, burial mechanism of the Great (Hussein et. al, 2009, p.4). Ancient way of building the pyramids were extraordinary for their time, and the fact that they lasted for over 5000 years and are still standing shows that the Egyptian engineers were smart and knew what they were doing. Fonte (2007) believes, Great Pyramid and the other structures at Giza, which are generally considered to be the pinnacle of the The ways the Egyptians constructed the pyramids follows basic engineering methods, they had the base built under ground to sustain the weight of the pyramid above it and constructed it in a way that it will not collapse on itself once finished. This way of engineering used in the pyramids helped immensely in keeping it from falling apart to this day. Egypt was a farming country and had its farms and has the Nile river which helps spread the agriculture across all of Egypt. Because of the agriculture, the areas around the Nile became cultivated with plant and trees. The river floods once or twice every year causing dry seasons and these floods sometime destroy and deteriorate the buildings near the Nile. Because of the trees and plants that are around the river the areas that the floods damage has been extremely reduced which kept a lot of buildings and tombs from way. Although the agriculture helped in reducing the damage from the flood, the floods from the Nile still causes trouble for some farmers and their crops. This continued to be a problem until the 1970s when the Egyptian government built the high dam in the Nile to control the flow of the river and keeping it from damaging the buildings and crops. Now the floods have stopped and if something happens with the dam the amount of agriculture created since the building of the dam will stop the floods until the dam is repaired again. These were the main reasons stated by the authors of the respected articles that helped keep the pyramids intact for all these years and who knows what other undiscovered reasons have caused the pyramids to stay longer. Sources; 1- Klemm, D. D., & Klemm, R. (2001). The building stones of ancient Egypt a gift of its geology. Journal Of African Earth Sciences, 33(African Renaissance and Geosciences), 631-642. doi:10.1016/S0899-5362(01)00085-9 2- Hussein, A. S., & El-Shishiny, H. (2009). Wind flow modeling and simulation over the Giza Plateau cultural heritage site in Egypt. ACM Journal On Computing & Cultural Heritage, 2(2), 1. doi:10.1145/1613672.1613674 3- Fonte, G. A. (2007). Building the Great Pyramid in a Year : An Report. New York: Algora Publishing. 4- Ahmed, A. A., & Fogg, G. E. (2014). The impact of groundwater and agricultural expansion on the archaeological sites at Luxor, Egypt. Journal Of African Earth Sciences, 9593-104. doi:10.1016/j.jafrearsci.2014.02.007