THE TRANSFORMATION OF ELECTRIC/HYBRID VEHICLES The Transformation of Electric/hybrid Vehicles and Their benefits on you and society Majed M. Bairakdar University of South Florida Instructor Nancy Carr ENC 1101.016 THE TRANSFORMATION OF ELECTRIC/HYBRID VEHICLES Abstract Automobiles, we all use them but which type of automobile is the best? In automobile industry, there are three major powered cars. The gasoline power cars, electric powered cars, and the hybrid powered cars. This paper will explain and compare The Transformation of electric/hybrid vehicles. electric and hybrid powered vehicles. Although we believe that the invention of electric and hybrid cars is recent, they have in fact been there for decades. The transformation of electric/Hybrid vehicles had a lot of changes and improvements throughout the years, the electric/hybrid also had major social changes, throughout the people and the market itself. Back in the day electric/hybrid vehicles were used all over, ranging from governments, personal use, and even public transportation. electric/hybrid Vehicles had a weird timeline, where they were famous and were used a lot and at one point the market suddenly crashed. That time it was rare to see an electric/hybrid vehicle on the street, and instead, the gasoline power cars started booming. according to Deal III, W. F. (2010) he claims that the early 1900s, there were many different brands of automobiles. Names such as Ford, Dodge, Chrysler, Oldsmobile, and Chevrolet are still around today. However, names such as Packard, Hupmobile, Hudson, Frazier, Cord, and, DeSoto have disappeared from showrooms and (pg.6) THE TRANSFORMATION OF ELECTRIC/HYBRID VEHICLES The Transformation of Electric/hybrid Vehicles and Their benefits on you and society This paper discusses the argument to choose an electric or hybrid car over gasoline cars, and the benefits you will get from both. Rudolph, C et article How may incentives for electric cars affect purchase decisions (2016) breaks down a benefits list between owning a gasoline and owning a hybrid/electric car. This paper will also show the history of the electric/hybrid cars, and how they were popular and useful back then. Deal III, W. F. et (2010) also stated that back in the 1890s where a company from Philadelphia started to manufacture a fleet of electric-powered taxis for the city of New York. Electric hybrid cars are evolving year after year, and that is also proven in Zhen, Z., Chau, K. k., Chunhua, L., Chun, Q., & Ching, T. W. et (2015) article where he states the build of a wireless charging battery. Showing the improvements and more benefits the electric/hybrid cars have had in previous years. K. G. (2008) article also help shows the history of the electric cars and how they were used in wars. Electric cars were available a long time ago, as a matter of fact, electric cars were dominating the vehicle industry. Companies such as Packard, Hupmobile, Hudson, Frazier, Cord, and DeSoto, were the famous electric car manufacturers that everyone bought their cars from. The late 1890s was when the electric motor companies started to develop electric motors in America, where a company from Philadelphia started to manufacture a fleet of electric-powered taxis for the city of New York. Unfortunately, that did not last long, since starting the 1900s THE TRANSFORMATION OF ELECTRIC/HYBRID VEHICLES brands like Ford, Dodge, and Chrysler started taking over, and you would barely see the electric showrooms or even see them on highways. Walter F. was useful and had a lot of good points. I liked how Deal was broken down into different parts, like starting with the history, going through the battery technologies, and explaining the future of what is predicted to happen for both electric, hybrid car, gasoline and petrol powered cars. Including the advantages and disadvantages to the topic mentioned in the article was a great addition to it, where it gives a great breakdown to the readers to go through the different points and decide what he thinks is better. Overall Deal had solid points with great explanations. Electric and hybrid cars are a step forward to the end of Global Warming, countries around the world are promoting the purchase of hybrid and electric cars. Germany for the ambitious target of million electric cars on German roads by (Rudolph, C., 2016, pg.11) Reality speaks, and the numbers now do not show that Germany is getting a millio n cars on German roads anytime soon. Countries around the world are giving privileges to those who purchase a hybrid or an electric car, ranging from free parking spots all over the city to free charging stations. Mathematically proven owning an electric car is way cheaper than owning a petrol or diesel car, in the long run. of owning a hybrid car includes free parking, a THE TRANSFORMATION OF ELECTRIC/HYBRID VEHICLES separate CO2 tax, an increase of fuel costs by tax elevation, and an increase of available charging (Rudolph, C., 2016, pg.13) article had a lot of statistics, and detailed percentages which I like, because it gives you a great understanding of the points they are trying to deliver. also showed solutions and ideas the countries had to promote the purchase of the electric and hybrid car to start eliminating the global warming issue. Reading made me think about getting a hybrid car because Rudolph uses a great detailed chart that shows you, that by owning a hybrid for electric cars the odds are in your favor. Everyone nowadays thinks that hybrid or electric powered cars are the latest ever or is the newest add to automobiles, but hybrid and electric cars have been there since the history of the batteries. Electric cars had a great period which was called the golden age, where electric based cars were popular, that period was from about 1880 to 1900. Electric cars were also used in the war back then; they were usually used to clean the streets and garbage collection. By the 1980s electric cars boomed again and in 1990 California announced their first zero-emission regulations to the public. Fast-forward a couple of years 2001 start of seeing hybrid cars on the road. article was well organized and had great detailed historical points. broke down the article to 11 different subtitles that help the reader with understanding the points better. THE TRANSFORMATION OF ELECTRIC/HYBRID VEHICLES I also like how included great quotes. I think this helps the reader while trying to get all the different points of the article. started with the history of the electric cars and ended on how nowadays are a lot of different hybrids and fully electric based cars on the roads, and the electric cars transformed from being garbage collectors in the war to being cars that they use day to day. As stated in the title of Zhen, Z., Chau, K. k., Chunhua, L., Chun, Q., & journal is a wireless charging system designed for roadway-powered electric vehicles. A roadway- powered electric vehicle can accumulate energy even while the vehicle is in motion. Therefore, reducing the dependence of a battery or for that matter even battery charging specific stations. Zhen, Z., Chau, K. k., Chunhua, L., Chun, Q., & Ching provides a solution of sorts that utilizes a positioning tolerant wireless charging system that can be used for roadway-powered electric vehicles. The said technique implements a gapless alternate-winding topology. At the end, Zhen, Z., Chau, K. k., Chunhua, L., Chun, Q., & Ching stated that the solution is feasible and therefore is very much implementable. Zhen, Z., Chau, K. k., Chunhua, L., Chun, Q., & journal is a credible source as published by students from the department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering. This is a useful resource as this is applicable to my research and allows for a greater understanding of my work. This is an essential field of research. Overall the usage of a feasible outcome goes to show that is indeed a viable solution. THE TRANSFORMATION OF ELECTRIC/HYBRID VEHICLES Conclusion electric/hybrid powered cars and gasoline-powered cars are a battle that happened in the past and are still happening in the present and will still happen in the future. the articles mentioned in this paper all shows and argues that owning an electric/hybrid car is way more efficient and has a lot of more benefits. for instance, Rudolph, C (2016) states in his article the benefits you get with owning a hybrid electric car. free parking, less tax, etc. people can argue that electric/hybrid cars been there for long and that gasoline cars were there forever, which makes them perfect. to that I can mention both K. G. (2008) article and Deal III, W. F. et (2010), where Deal III, W. F. et (2010) mentioned that most of the taxis in the 1890s were electric cars and K. G. (2008) that stated the in the 1900s garbage vehicles in the wars were for sure electric. finally, to prove to everyone that electric/hybrid cars are improving I would like to introduce Zhen, Z., Chau, K. k., Chunhua, L., Chun, Q., & Ching, T. W. (2015) article, where they introduce the new wireless charging battery in the electric/hybrid vehicles. THE TRANSFORMATION OF ELECTRIC/HYBRID VEHICLES Reference Zhen, Z., Chau, K. k., Chunhua, L., Chun, Q., & Ching, T. W. (2015). A positioning- tolerant wireless charging system for roadway-powered electric vehicles. Journal Of Applied Physics, 117(17), 17B520-1-17B520-4. Rudolph, C. (2016). How may incentives for electric cars affect purchase decisions? Transport Policy, 52113-120. doi:10.1016/j.tranpol.2016.07.014 Deal III, W. F. (2010). Going Green with Electric Vehicles. Technology & Engineering Teacher, 70(3), 5-11. K. G. (2008). The history of alternative fuels in transportation: The case of electric and hybrid cars. Utilities Policy, 16(2), 63-71. doi:10.1016/j.jup.2007.11.001