Sadhman Farhan Nancy Carr ENC1101.016S17 19 February 2017 Effects of acid rain and greenhouse gases on the environment Acid rain and greenhouse gas effect has become one of the major issues in world. It has been discovered that the main cause of acid rain is due to manmade air pollution. Research shows that consequences of these are drastic and it affects the whole environment, leading to instability for future generations. The major sectors of concern due to acid rain include but are not limited to the atmosphere, external structures such as buildings, aquatic life as well as plant growth and development. The first explanation of acid rain was back in 1852 when Robert Angus Smith showed the relationship between acid rain and atmospheric pollution in Manchester, England. However, it was officially founded in 1853 and scientists started researching on it after the late 1960s. Harold Harvey was among the first to research a a lake known to have extreme low level of oxygen, insufficient for most aquatic animals and plants to survive. Global warming is contributing to an increase in temperature. I believe it is inevitable to worry about this global issues as it is causing major concerns such as ozone depletion as well as the reduction in the growth of plants that can affect the production of our food vastly. In order for us to take steps, I strongly believe, we need to know and understand better, that is how have acid rain and greenhouse gas effect contributed to environmental problems and what can we do to prevent them? Demirbas, A. (2006). Hazardous emissions, global climate change and environmental precautions. Energy sources. Part B, Economics, planning and policy, 1(1), 75- 84. Ayhan Demirbas describes the various types of gases that are responsible for air pollution and also outlines the formation of acid rain and its effects on the environment. The journal provides various graphical evaluations and tables of the experiments which show the different gases emitted from coal powered fire stations that are considered the major sources of air pollution. One other gas that is indicated was Chlorofluorocarbon also known as CFC which is considered to be the major pollutant gas behind ozone depletion. Another major gas discussed in this article was carbon dioxide and many of its effects on the atmosphere were shown. The author also included a paragraph that mentioned about smog; a mixture of smoke and other air pollutants which is known to be produced from burning of fuel. The author also discussed Kyoto protocol, its mechanism and what it achieves; Kyoto protocol is an international agreement to reduce emissions. journal on the effects of global warming and acid rain on the environment is of use for my research paper as it adds insight on the harmful effects of greenhouse gases on the environment. The author includes a variety of statistical information in the form of experimental tables, graphs and other infographics to help the reader analyze the importance of the situation. Ayhan Demirbas is also a credible source as he has published numerous papers on this topic from the Department of Chemical Engineering at Selcuk University in Turkey. T. N., & S. (2008). 21st energy: Hydrogen energy system. Energy Conversion & Management, 49(7), 1820-1831. doi:10.1016/j.enconman. 2007.08.015 In this journal, outlines how the world has developed using fossil fuels as their main source of energy for a rise in living standards. research also showed that the demand for fossil fuels kept on rising due to increase in world population and the industrialization of developing countries and with it there was a decrease in fossil fuels. A graph of estimates of distribution of the fossil fuels was also included. The effects of environmental damage were discussed elaborately; one of the main causes of it was due to the excessive use of fossil fuels. These effects were demonstrated in a chart which covered all the areas that were affected by fossil fuel depletion. The author also discussed an alternative source of energy other than fossil fuels which was more environment friendly, hydrogen gas. Finally, the journal compared the three sources of energy among which fossil fuels were declared the most dangerous, coal was moderately harmful and hydrogen was the safest source of energy among the three. and work was highly relevant for my research as it highlights ways of finding a better replacement of energy source which is both safe for the environment and is also a renewable source. The author also outlined the cons of using fossil fuels which provides valuable information for my research topic. Vaziroglu is a credible source as he has conducted research in a clean energy research institute at the University of Miami in Coral Gables, Florida. Sahin did his work at Gazi Universities in Ankara, Turkey. Wallack, J. S., & Ramanathan, V. (2009). The other climate changers: why black carbon and ozone also matter. Foreign Affairs, 88(5), 105-113. In this journal, Wallack and Ramanthan demonstrated how dangerous global warming is to the environment and to our future. It states that carbon dioxide is not the only gas that causes global warming but black carbon and ozone precursors also play a major role; some hidden forms of pollutants that contributed to global warming. The formation of these pollutants are discussed elaborately. While governments all over the world are trying to reduce the emission of carbon dioxide, they are not focusing on other, more rewarding mitigation of pollutants such as black carbon. Reducing these pollutants is much easier and will definitely provide a faster result in the improvement of the atmosphere while the other pollutants can be dealt with separately. Wallack and work is extremely helpful for my research since it discusses which pollutants contribute to global warming and the depletion of the ozone layer. My research deals with finding out ways to reduce pollutants as much as possible and bringing stability to the environment. This source is credible as it was published by the council of Foreign Affairs, a governmental organization from India. A., Artola, A., Font, X., Gea, T., Barrena, R., Gabriel, D., & ... Mondini, C. (2015). Greenhouse gas emissions from organic waste composting. Environmental Chemistry Letters, 13(3), 223. doi:10.1007/s10311-015- 0507-5 The authors outline how treatment of organic waste products can produce greenhouse gases, the biological treatment of such products produces odor that causes discomfort to the public. Such smells are produced due to the emission of volatile compound. The two types of treatments mentioned in the article are composting plants and anaerobic digestions. The gases produced are tested as they contain ammonia which can contribute to acid rain. The two sources of carbon dioxide mentioned are biogenic and non-biogenic. Other gases that are discussed include methane and nitrous oxide which could, in the long run, lead to global warming. Several other composting materials and their long term effects are discussed such as manures, agricultural crop residues and so forth. The article also provides statistical tables to prove the emission of greenhouse gases from such composting materials. Finally, et al. also discusses how reduction of greenhouse gases could be accomplished. Sanchez, Artola, Font, Gea, Barrena, Gabriel and work is very useful for my research since it discusses how organic wastes can also cause greenhouse effect and what possible solutions in reducing such pollution could be. More details on such sources of greenhouse emissions are necessary to be known in order to prevent global warming and air contamination. The authors provide a very detailed discussion of such procedures. Antonio Sanchez is from Spain and is in the department of chemical engineering along with Claudio Mondini from Italy. Their work is well known and they are credible writers for this source. Singer, M. (2013). Respiratory health and ecosyndemics in a time of global warming. Health Sociology Review, (1), 98. The author, Singer showed how a degradation in air quality has increased the range of respiratory diseases. Singer also introduced important links between diminishing air quality, global warming and respiratory diseases. The major factors that were considered included car pollution an Industrialization; forest fire, noxious mold exposure that are assisted by precipitation pattern, farmland structuring and more frequent flooding; an increase in pollen from ragweed and other allergic flora. One other threat that Singer mentioned was ecosyndemics defined as harmful diseases caused due to changing environment. The author uses several examples in order to provide evidence of the effects described and many statistics of disease affected areas were mentioned. A discussion of diseases at the time of climate change was done as well. Singer also introduced a very famous novelist Charles Dickens to highlight the article. Charles was known to have asthma who had grown up during the industrialization. Singer believes we are our own reasons for environmental pollution and restates it in the conclusion. Merrill article is extremely useful for my research paper due to the fact that it justifies how air pollution and global warming has affected the environment and the human massively. The estimates of people affected due to such diseases and the age limits that are affected most were also mentioned which provides valid information for my annotated bibliography. Singer also states that various gases played a role in impairing immune system which is very alarming to the people. Singer is from Department of anthropology in the University of Connecticut, Mansfield, CT, USA. He is known to be a prolific writer and a professor at the University of Connecticut. Engle-Friedman, M., Furman, G., Lui, F., & Eunjung, L. (2015). Attitudes regarding media coverage of environmental issues and climate change. International Journal Of Sustainability Education, 10(2), 1-18 The authors in this journal mentions the attitudes of people regarding media Coverage of reports that include news of global warming and how people classified the news as true or false or inaccurate. They carried out a survey of different people and ages to see what each group of people thought about the news being reported by the media. Several tables and charts were included that showed people of different ethnicity and their justification about the news. A questionnaire called SAB (sustainable Attitude and Behaviors) survey was used were people provided the feedback. Other than that, the authors include the report about global warming and water shortages on bar graphs that were justified as understated, uncertain or overstated. A discussion of how people receive news was also made. The article over media is very useful for my resource as it is very important that people know the correct news about global warming as it has become one of the major aspects where people deeply rely on. In world, media is the major source that supplies the news and it is necessary to ensure it is authentic. This article is credible for my source as the authors are from reputed Universities Mindy Engle-Friedman is from Baruch College, City University of New York, USA. Gleb Furman is from University of Texas at Austin, USA. Florence Lui, is from the Graduate Center, City University of New York, USA. Eunjung Lee is from Baruch College, City University of New York, USA.