Alkhamali 1 Abdullah Zayed K Alkhamali Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 3 May 2017 Guns and Education can Coexist United States is one of the best leading countries in education. However, every country has its own issues such as economic, social, and religious problems. One of the most debated issues in the United States is gun control. According to the Congressional Research Service, there are roughly twice as many guns per capita in the United States as there were in 1968: more than 300 million guns in (para.1). This huge number of guns has brought many crimes and deaths in the United States. According to Every Town Research, gun homicide rate is more than 25 times the average of other developed  (para.6). One important factor in this high rate is mass shootings which are incidents involving multiple victims of guns and firearms in a violent way. According to USA Today, since 2006, there have been more than 200 mass shootings in the United States which resulted many deaths and (para.1). Gun control will ultimately decrease the number of deaths and crimes in the United States. The Department of Education has improved the U.S. education to a really high level, so providing gun education will definitely benefit the department. The Department of Education should get involved by providing classes about gun safety for children because children are the future of the United States. Gun control is the solution for the madness of gun violence in the United States. Guns do not kill people, People  is what gun supporters are saying in order to convince other people that guns are not the main reason behind gun violence. However, the number of deaths and injuries caused by guns that owned by civilians has a different perspective. To illustrate, The number of American civilian gun deaths in the twenty-first century is greater Alkhamali 2 than the sum of all US combat deaths in World War I plus World War II plus the conflicts in Korea and (Hemenway 201). Moreover, mass shootings is one of main parts of gun violence in the United States. Indeed, most Americans know about the tragedy of Sandy Hook elementary school shooting that occurred on December 14, 2012, in Newtown. This mass shooting happened when a young male shot 20 children and six adult school members by Bushmaster XM15-E2S ( Taxman 113). The young man Adam Lanza had an easy access to his rifle which caused this tragedy. As a result, guns should be really hard to get especially for children and young adults. The Department of Education is one of the most effective governmental department in the United States. According to the Department of education, The original Department of Education was created in 1867, when President Andrew Johnson signed it into legislation. The main purpose of the Department of Education was to collect information on schools and teaching that would help the States establish effective school (para. 3). The Department of mission statement states that mission is to promote student achievement and preparation for global competitiveness by fostering educational excellence and ensuring equal (para. 1). The department of Education never got engaged in the issue of gun violence, and their position is not stated yet. However, The department of Education care more about education and its improvements. If the department of Education got involved, it will probably focus only on the education aspects of guns. To illustrate, the department would educate students about guns and how guns can be very dangerous when they used by bad people. If the Department of Education got involved in the issue of gun violence, there would be many positive impacts on the department and also on Americans. Indeed, the U.S. Department of Education wants to improve education, so getting engaged in gun violence would have many possible ways to improve education. For example, having gun education in Alkhamali 3 public schools would open many job opportunities for instructors specialized in guns, so the department will improve in this new field that never be taught in public schools. These specialized instructors should get god salary from the Department of Education, so they can give the best education for their students. Some students have passion about guns and how to use them safely, so getting gun education from early age would increases their knowledge, and maybe these students could be teachers in gun education. Furthermore, some parents wants from their children to know more about guns, so children can react safely when they see a gun. However, some students do not care about guns and how to use them, so these students will probably have no idea what to do when they see a gun. This ignoring of the importance of gun safety will lead these students to danger if they face some cases that deal with guns. Moreover, private and special classes about gun safety could be very expansive. As a result, applying gun education in public school would benefit Americans in a remarkable way, so students do not have to pay anything to get such education. Also, if students have the knowledge about guns, this definitely will decrease gun violence. To illustrate, some people argue that declining child unintentional firearm deaths may be the result of gun safety education that teaches children how to be safe around ( Frattaroli 45). The Department of Education could involve beneficially in the issue of gun violence by doing three simple steps. First, creating an educational movie that can discuss all the aspects of gun safety such as handling a gun safely and actions that you do when you see a gun with non-authorized personnel. A great example of movie that discussed the actions that you do when you see a gun is Eddie Eagle. According to Mordechai Gordon, The Eddie Eagle program is a gun accident prevention program that seeks to help parents, law enforcement, community groups and educators navigate a topic paramount to our safety. Eddie and his Wing Team are on a mission to help you teach Pre-K through 4th Alkhamali 4 graders what to do if they ever come across a (212). Second, applying this movie which can be 2 hours length as a mandatory class in elementary schools. To illustrate, the movie can be separated in multiple lectures, so children can understand the content easily. For example, when you see a gun do not touch it and leave the area immediately. This one example of behaving safely when you see a gun. According to Laura Hanratty there are a number of different safety threats that children face in their lives. One infrequent, but highly dangerous situation a child can face is a Hundreds of children are injured or killed by each (310). For example, some children are curious, so if a child hold a handgun, try to keep him/her calm and do not make the child point the handgun toward any person. Then, ask the child in a calm way to give you the gun, so the child will probably feel that guns are dangerous and will turn in the gun to you. Finally, doing a study about gun violence before and after this class, so the department could decide whether the class benefited the students or not. The benefit from this class can be easily identified by making awareness really high, so they can easily deal with guns safely. In conclusion, gun control is one of the most debated and discussed topics in the United States. Definitely, having a strong and effective gun control will decrease the gun violence in the United States. Mass shootings have happened because of the easy access of guns, so making guns hard to get is a better choice to stop this madness. The Department of Education did not get involved of the issue of gun violence before, so their position is unknown. However, the Department of Education could beneficially involve in gun violence by providing an educational movie about guns. The Department of Education would have a new field of study which is gun education that can benefit the department in a remarkable way. Students can benefit from the class that the Department of Education is going to create by taking a free knowledge about guns. Finally, the Department of education will do a study Alkhamali 5 about gun violence before and after this class, so to see the effects of this class. The class will probably decrease gun violence and lead to a safer society more than today. Alkhamali 6 Works Cited Taxman, Jeffrey. Gun Violence in America A Vector  Perspectives on Gun Violence: National and International Views, 2 Jan. 2016, pp. 113-123. Wiely Online Library, DOI 10.1002/aps.1490. Gordon, Mordechai.  For the Love of Our Children: Hannah Arendt, the Limits of Freedom and the Role of Education in a Culture of  American Educational Studies Association, May. 2015, Vol. 51, p209-222. DOI: 10.1080/00131946.2015.1033518. Hanratty, Laura. Evaluating the Effectiveness of a Teaching Package Utilizing Behavioral Skills Training and In Situ Training to Teach Gun Safety Skills in a Preschool  Behavioral skills training, 9 Apr. 2016, pp. 310-322. ResearchGate, DOI 10.1007/s10864-016-9248-1. Hemenway, David. Reducing Firearm  Crime & Justice, vol. 46, no. 1, Jan. 2017 pp. 201. http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/t-and-c Accessed 19 April, 2017. Frattaroli, Shannon, et al. Unintentional Gun Injuries, Firearm Design, and Prevention: What We Know, What We Need to Know, and What Can Be  Journal of Urban Health, no. 1, 2002, pp. 53. Accessed 19 April, 2017. About  the Department of Education ,2017, https://www2.ed.gov/about/landing.jhtml?src=ft Accessed 25 April 2017. Congressional Research Service  The Library of Congress ,2017, https://www.loc.gov/crsinfo/ Accessed 25 April 2017. Gun Violence By The  Everytown ,2017, https://everytownresearch.org/gun-violence-by-the-numbers/#America Accessed 25 April 2017.