Lin 1 Han Ye Lin Nancy Carr ENC1101-016 5 th February 2017 Genetically Modified Organisms in Food! GMO, or Genetically Modified Organism, is an organism whose genes have been modified by the recombination of DNA. This process is completely different from cloning, which is replicating DNA but it can be used to create more Genetically Modified Organisms. Nowadays, food that people consume are either genetically modified or organic, this refers to both meat and vegetables. Unlike GM food, organic food is naturally grown or bred, and they are not modified. This all started in the 19 th Century when DNA was first discovered, leading to the discovery of alteration of DNA. The purpose of Genetically Modified food is to increase productivity and the overall product quality. For example, carrots that are genetically modified are larger than naturally grown carrots, and are also tastier. This comes as a solution to famine as GM food are cheaper than organic food. However, the solution of one problem brings another problem: which is the healthiness of eating GM food, and the destruction and contamination of the environment (soil). Like wild fire, GM food has already been spread rapidly to the whole world and now, it has been a serious topic that needs to be discussed. The research topic is that Genetically Modified food safe for (205 words) Lin 2 Annotated Bibliography Dona, A., & Arvanitoyannis, I.S. (2009), Health Risks of Genetically Modified Foods. Critical Reviews in Food Science & Nutrition, 49(2), 164-175 Dona and Arvanitoyannis explored the possible health risks of consuming Genetically Modified Food and some of the risks that were found are increasing anti-nutrients, the transformation of antibiotic resistant genes to bacteria and the effects on allergic responses. Moreover, consumption of genetically modified food can affect the activities of existing genes and biochemical pathways of plants. It can also lead to the disruption of metabolism in unforeseeable ways, resulting in new toxic compounds. A research mentioned by Dona also found that an organism has a limited amount of control over the number of genes present in its whole body. Dona also referred that genetically modified plants may also result in an increase in anti-nutrients, making it unsuitable for consumption. Not only does this applies to human beings, but also the farm animals that feed on the plants. An example given is sheep and cattle having infertility problems, and allergenic reactions to the anti-nutrients in the genetically modified plants. Likewise, with people, the consumption of these types of plants may respond with allergies or affect the growth of the body, especially body weight. In addition to this, these modified crops may also be responsible for the new diseases and viruses if they were consumed. worse was that GM food companies were found guilty of hiding the fact that they were lying about GM food being safe for consumption. Furthermore, neither the scientists nor the companies do not know the long-term effects of eating GM Food. This source is relevant to my essay as it explores the health risks of consuming GM food. The author mainly focuses on the health risks with proofs of laboratory experiment results and surveys which will help me determine the real risks of eating food that contains modified genes. Furthermore, I can also use the experiments mentioned in the journal to prove that GM food could be a poison. However, I believe the author should consider the fact that animal bodies are not similar to that of human beings, therefore, the effects that were seen in animal testing do not fully support the fact that human will also be affected by it. (356 words) Lin 3 Miller, C. (2009). Synthetic Foods: Shrinking Our Brains, Testicles, and Livers?. Tikkun, 24(5), 27-83 Miller cited that 80 percent of processed food contain genetically modified organisms while a large part of Europe put a ban on the use of Genetically Modified Organisms in food. On May 19 of 2009, Americans were educated on the dangers of consuming genetically modified food which were backed up with considerable proof. One is the study of lab rats, that fed on potatoes containing GMO, shows that these rats developed smaller than average brains, testicles and livers. However, there is another factor that makes GMO deadly not labelling the GMO containing food that are for sale. Therefore, even though people knew GM food poses a threat to their lives, they did not know what they are consuming. Moreover in 2009, the famous corporations refused to test for safety or label their products, making it impossible to know what threats GMO containing food could have. While GMO may impose new diseases or viruses, there is also a possibility that consuming these could repeat history dormant virus sequences being active again and taking lives or abnormal functioning of cells such as being unstable, leading to mutation of cells. Miller also cited an article which showed that in 2009, crop yields were not increasing as predicted for GMO soybean fields. Miller explained why people are still consuming GM food and what kind of threats it may pose. This will help me fortify my argument on eating GM food is not as safety as we think, especially the point where a GM food company refused to testify their products for safety. I believe the author should put more statistics and proof that eating GM food could repeat disease and history. (280 words) Lin 4 Jamal, F., Haque, Q., Qidwai, T., & Paliwal, A. K. (2010). Genetically modified (GM) foods: a brief perspective. International Journal of Biotechnology & Biochemistry, (1), 13. Jamal et. al wrote why GM foods were invented and the possible risks that came with it. Increasing world population is a serious problem and increasing population means that the demand for food will continue to increase dramatically. Genetically Modified (GM) foods is a solution to hunger and malnutrition problems. GM crops were created with a sole purpose to increase the nutritional values but along with it, came many challenges for scientists, people and the government, especially striving with the question: it Moreover, GM crops possess the ability to ward off pests and weeds, survive harsh weather or even natural disasters like drought and increased nutritional values while farmers have to take care of organic crops with no fertilizers and the crops can be easily destroyed should a disaster strike. Therefore, with the convenience of farming efficiently and buying GM seeds with cheaper prices, farmers are left with no choice but to switch to the use of GM crops. However, there are certain risks for human: allergenicity and unknown effects on human health. The introduction of GM food means there are new genes and there could be people who are allergic to it, and there are cases when allergies can become life-threatening situations. Likewise, new genes could cause turbulence inside a human body, causing problems inside. Miller presented information about GM food history and why it was created. This information is relevant to my research paper as it will explain why people will need to depend on GM food in the future. Miller has also recorded the possible health risks for human when consuming these foods, allowing me to determine whether GM food is safe or will it be necessary. (282 words) Lin 5 Kocher, J., & Rashid, M. (2015). Engineering Our Food: Possible Risks verses Reward. Procedia Social and Behavioral Sciences, 176 (International Education Technology Conference, IETC 2014, 3-5 September 2014, Chicago, IL, USA), 927-932. Doi: 10.1016/j.sbspro.2015.01.560 Kocher and Rashid explored the risks and gains from genetically modifying our food. Now, not only crops were grown, even meat such as beef can now be grown in a laboratory. This allows people to solve hunger issues and it will continue to as technology advances. Therefore, it can be predicted that food supply for increasing population is no longer a threat. On the other hand, consumers fear that growing these genetically modified foods will replace organic crops as the GM crop pollen will interact with unmodified crops. The reason is because people are horrified of health risks from consuming modified crops ever since scientists announced that they found problems in genetically modified foods after experimenting on lab rats, and that there are still unknown effects that can appear. Moreover, they made public that they still do not fully understand the factors when the DNA of an organism transforms. As a result, people choose to buy and consume organic foods rather than GM foods as they are concerned about their health regardless of how much they have to pay. Furthermore, farmers are also afraid that these modified crops might contaminate the original crops, causing food shortage problems worse. Kocher and Rashid believe that the production of genetically modified crops and foods should be stopped unless they are proven to be safe to both human and the environment. The information provided by Kocher and Rashid is about how GM food is solving a world dilemma; hunger. GM crops are taking over markets as farmers are changing their use of organic seeds to GM seeds provided by GM crops companies. However, people are also terrified at the fact that GM foods is replacing organic crops while there are still unknown effects that GM foods can cause. I completely agree with the author that GM foods should be banned before they know what potential threats it may have. (315 words) Lin 6 Delaney, B. (2015). Safety assessment of foods from genetically modified crops in countries with developing economies. Food and Chemical Toxicology, 132. Doi: 10.1016/j.fct.2015.10.001 For the past 20 years, Genetically Modified (GM) crops has given noticeable benefits such as the decrease in use of pesticides and herbicides, increased productivity and quality, and a decline in labor costs. By 2050, food production is expected to increase by 70% in order to feed the increasing population. The early generation GM crops focused on protein concentrated levels, and Delaney has mentioned that proteins do not have a risk for health as it is digested into amino acids, which is absorbed as nutrition expect some proteins that present a level of toxicity or allergenicity. Before making public, proteins that is a hazard to human is carefully researched and it is seen that there are some proteins that is sensitive to a small part of human but it decreases as the human ages. There were two safety guidelines for GM crops: one is that whether the proteins pose a threat or not and the other is whether there are unintended changes when the plant is genetically modified. Even though these two guidelines do not assure that GM crops are absolutely safe, there is a history of safe consumption of these foods. Studies with lab rats have been conducted with these GM foods and the results are that there were no adverse effects that could be seen. Likewise, broiler chickens were also tested and no adverse effects were seen. Delaney talks about GM foods were actually tested for safety and how it was already solving world hunger since they were introduced. Delaney concluded that there is no difference between GM foods and organic foods. In fact, GM foods provides more nutrients and the genetically modified genes are proteins that are used by the body to produce energy. Furthermore, the author proves his research with two experiments where rats and broiler chickens were fed GM foods and there were no adverse effects that could be seen. I agreed that GM foods was already solving hunger and that it should be safe, and that it is essential for saving millions of lives in the near future. However, there are many type of GM foods and while may be safe, others may not. (360 words) Lin 7 Khan, S. J., Muafia, S., Nasreen, Z., & Salariya, A. M. (2012). GENETICALLY MODIFIED ORGANISMS (GMOs): FOOD SECURITY OR THREAT TO FOOD SAFETY. Pakistan Journal of Science, 64(2), 6-12. The United States, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, India and China are the top producers of GM crops while the European nations partially ban or place high restrictions on producing or selling GM crops. Moreover, it is mentioned that there were a large number of scientists and physicians who acknowledge the fact that GM products pose dangers while some claimed that it should have never been in the food chain. In 1989, there was a record of deaths of Americans and thousands that were affected due to the consumption of genetically modified food supplement. There were similar situations with allergies and cancer, even though people survive the allergies, they experienced near-death situations. Lab rats were also poisoned after feeding them GM potatoes damaged organs, stomach lining and the immune system. Furthermore, there is a high possibility that GM pollen will disperse into the environment, leading to a disaster as organic crops will also be contaminated and, it is also found that monarch butterflies could perish as the toxins inside GM pollens are deadly to them. In addition to this, major GM crop companies are trying to buy off farmers and use their products instead of producing organic foods. The author of this article state that the government goal should be minimizing or eliminating potential threats to citizens, indirectly telling the government to take actions like putting a ban or restricting. Khan et. al showed that there were casualties of consuming GM foods in the 19 th Century. It can be seen that GM foods have caused certain number of deaths and not only that, it could also cause the extinction of certain animals. Allowing me to make a decision whether GM foods are safe or not and to prove my point. The statement that the authors made is completely true as the government should be protecting its citizens, not giving them poison. (310 words)