ENC Name: Marruf Musfik Ahmed Mihal Instructor: Nancy Carr Final draft Project 2 Ginga Being born among the Afro-Brazilian population, ginga has changed a lot in the time period. Once a method of rebellion and survival not considered as a piece of art.Ginga, an ancient Brazilian martial art that involves the movement of body from one side to another. In the times of the colonists the slaves in Brazil faced their worst times, some even considered death a better option than living that life, among them Ginga was born a martial art that looks simple and beautiful but it is much more deadly than people can imagine. Although the slaves did try to fight against the colonists but Ginga was no match against the heavily armed colonists. Brazil being one of the last countries to abolish slavery, it left the slaves without a place to live or have food as no one would hire them for work. The only thing they still had was their ginga this is when things took a dark turn, among the afro population criminals grew in numbers, they used ginga to do crimes, at that time crime rates in Brazil was at the top most position. At a point the government was forced to abolish the practice of ginga once and for all.Once banned from a nation now acts as a pride for the same nation.Ginga in the present day acts as a Brazilian culture exporter in other beautiful movements usually fools the viewer but the martial art is deadly enough to knock out the opponent with one hit. Ginga has changed a lot over the time, its name has even been changed from Ginga to capoeira but one things that remains is its true beauty. Ginga from 2000-2010 Brazil being the biggest country in all over south america holds a large economy and a big population. Ginga plays a major role in everyday live of the brazilians might be as a morning exercise or a technique used in sports or dance. A lot there were many schools in brazil teachings Ginga, 2000 is the time when they actually started to expand this brazilian pride all over the world. Ginga was being taught in various schools around the world as a method of self-defence or dance or even applied in sports. One of most iconic example of ginga coming up in the eye was the historic win of Brazil in 2002 Fifa World Cup. The expectators claimed that was not just soccer but rather a piece of art performed by the Brazilians. Players seemed to be flying with the soccer ball on their feet, they called it Ginga football. As a tribute to this illustrious piece of art, it has been promoted through various source of media, but the place where it was able to catch the attention was in the famous movie of Sheldon Lettich, Only the Strong. In the movie an ex-Special Forces soldier Louis Stevens returns to Miami to find his former high school overruned by drugs and violence. A master of the Brazilian martial art, Ginga, Stevens pledges to straighten out a dozen of the worst students by teaching them this demanding and highly-disciplined fighting style. Slowly, his program begins to work, giving the students new hope and purpose. Due to this film, Ginga grew popularity among a lot of young people all over the world. Ginga 2010-2015 Anything can never to be popularized without being spreaded in the major cities and what can be a better city than New York to spread this magnificent ancient art, Ginga. ABA New York Capoeira Center, one of the well known organization that holds the privilege to promote Ginga. Making it a source of dance and self-defence they have succeeded to make it popular among men, women and even children. In the recent times after the iconic revolution of Silicon Valley, one thing has been noticed to be common among all the new millionaires, they all practice ginga as a method of self defence or just a morning exercise. It acts a stress reliever and people who do practice it has claimed that they rather feel relaxed and full of energy while they go out for work. Being famous mostly among the young millionaires, some claims it to be a rich things in parts of california. This enthusiastic martial art has faced massives changes in different period of times a things how people tends to use it. Being a source of Military training or a method implied with a sport, now a simple technique to relieve stress, Ginga has played a lot of roles in daily lives in disguise. Once abolished now acts a pride for the Brazilians. While Ginga has taken many forms throughout the years but the rich Brazilian Culture and its history still hides in it.