Running Head: Genetically Modified Organisms in Food 1 The Safety of Consuming Genetically Modified Organisms in Food Han Ye Lin University of South Florida Genetically Modified Organisms in Food 2 Abstract This paper explores two published articles within the year 2000 and 2010, and two articles published between 2011 and 2015. These articles mainly focus on the safety of Genetically Modified Food while going through various experiments and studies conducted. Dona and Arvanitoyannis (2009) examined the studies which conducted on laboratory rats and included the possible health risks which were announced by scientists. Likewise, Jamal (2010) et. al wrote about the introduction of GM crops and the risks that came along with it with reference to experiments and facts. Khan and his peers (2012) introduced GM food and have given statistics about the casualties about consumption of GM food together with announcements and reports concerning modified crops. On the other hand, Delaney (2015) clearly acknowledge that GM food has benefits and there any complications with it, proving his point with reference to tests and studies on various animals. After browsing through these articles, I concluded that since GM food has uncertainties and the debate is ongoing, it should be banned in both markets and agriculture unless all the scientists agreed that GM food is as safe as naturally grown food with proof. Keywords: Genetically Modified Organisms, DNA, safety assessment, organic foods and crops, rBGH, CaMV Genetically Modified Organisms in Food 3 The Safety of Consuming Genetically Modified Organisms in Food GMO, Genetically Modified Organism, is an organism whose genes has been modified by the recombination of DNA. As of now, food that people consume daily and food that is sold on the market falls into two categories: organic or genetically modified. Genetically modified foods contain certain strands of modified genes and DNA, that either gives more nutritional values or proteins, while organic foods are grown naturally. The purpose of GM food is to eliminate famine throughout the world and to secure the solution to human starvation in the future. Together with this purpose, it was also known to increase the yield of crops by allowing crops to withstand harsh weather and pests that destroy crops. When the genetically modified food was made commercial, it spread like wild fire to many developing and developed countries, and at the same time, showed great promise. However, the solution of one problem brings about more complications which is consumers worrying about the fact that whether these man-made foods are actually as safe as the naturally grown crops or not. After World Health Organization (WHO) announced the safety assessment of genetically modified foods and crops in 1991, it stirred up the community. Ever since 1991, even though there are more sources and studies that claimed GM food is not safe, the debate has yet to end. This is the problem which started and currently, scientists are still filled with uncertainties what effects the modified genes in the food may have on a human body, and still cannot be proven. Without clear understanding, GM food should not be consumed, but should be banned as there are studies which show that GM food can cause unknown effects together with heart disease and causing damage to internal organs. Genetically Modified Organisms in Food 4 Food is an important asset that a human being needs for his survival. Therefore, scientists tackled this problem as soon as the debate started. A scholarly article in 2009 was written by Dona and Arvanitoyannis to prove that Genetically Modified food is not safe for consumption and that if people be consuming these foods, why should animals too as human consumes animals as foods. They referred to studies and research, and found that even scientists claim that there are many possibilities a Genetically Modified Organism can cause when consumed. Some of the possibilities include allergic responses, pleiotropic and insertional effects, and increased mortality rate. Pleiotropic and insertional effects mean the effects of modifying a gene. Experiments have been conducted on lab rats by feeding them Genetically Modified Crop for 90 days under observation. The results were significantly remarkable: body weight, stomach erosion causing hemorrhage, necrosis and cell damage, increased mortality rate of infant rats and a fall in red blood cells. Furthermore, scientists have found that a certain genetically modified soybean was causing infertility in sheep and cattle. As predicted, there were also allergic responses and likewise, there was an 80% decrease in birth of piglets due GM corn. Dona and Arvanitoyannis also mentioned in their article that techniques used to detect GM gene in DNA is not working out well for the scientists, making it hard for the scientists to interpret the results. They concluded that GM food still needs to be assessed for many years in order for scientists to fully understand the effects of these modified genes on human bodies. Jamal, al et. wrote a brief perspective about Genetically Modified food. He included how GM crops were created to take over organic crops as they prove to be better in both yield of product and quality, which made many countries to change from organic crops to GM crops. Lastly, they wrote about the hazards of GM food to both the environment and to human beings. The environmental hazards included the increasing mortality rate in monarch butterflies and Genetically Modified Organisms in Food 5 caterpillars that fed on Bt corn. However, caterpillars consume milkweed plants, not corn, giving the idea that pollen from Bt corn have spread to milkweed plants. This in turn kills both insects and pests that consume plants around the plantation of GM crops, accidently causing naturally grown trees and plants to crossbreed with genetically modified crops. As for human health, food allergenicity is known to cause life-threatening situations and a proposal about inserting a brazil nut gene into soybean was declined due to fear of allergens. Moreover, scientists propose that GM food can cause unknown effects on human health as an article about an experiment on lab rats was published, which stated that there was a noticeable difference in the intestines of rats that fed on GM crops and rats that fed on organic crops. people feel that genetic engineering is the inevitable wave of the future and that we cannot afford to ignore a technology that has such enormous potential (Jamal et. al, 2010, p.22). On 2012, Khan al et. wrote an article about whether genetically modified food is a threat or a security. In the article, MODIFIED ORGANISMS (GMOs): FOOD SECURITY OR THREAT TO FOOD Khan al et. (2012) claim that is a vital issue that impacts all of us. Development of genetically modified organisms is one of the highest achievements of this (n.p.). They focused mainly on the threats that GM food had caused over the years. One was a record of dozens of Americans death due to the consumption of a genetically modified food supplement which is known as L-tryptophan. Another is the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) agreeing that a certain type of GM food was linked to cancer, a deadly disease. Additionally, genetically modified soybeans have caused severe allergic reaction causing some victims to be in a state of life and dead. There is also proof that the gene rBGH causes birth defects and shorter life spans, the evidence was found in cows injected with rBGH. According to the article written by Khan, the use of rBGH was banned in Genetically Modified Organisms in Food 6 Canada, the European Union (EU), Australia and New Zealand. Not only does rBGH causes birth defects and shorter life spans, it also causes an increase in antibiotic resistance. Another study mentioned by Khan claim that GM food have lower vital nutrients than organic food, vital nutrients that protect the body against cancer. CaMV, found in GM potatoes, is another modified gene found to be poisonous to mammals and is supported by a study of lab rats with damaged vital organs, stomach lining and immune system. Khan (2012) states that government goal is to minimize or eliminate any real or potential hazards, which in this case is the safety of consuming genetically modified food for both animals and (n.p.). On the other hand, Delaney wrote an article in 2015 about how GM food was as safe as organically grown food. He clearly explained how the production of GM soybean was halted before it went to the market as there was a high possibility that the soybean would be allergic to certain people. However, there is also a probability that proteins in GM foods will create allergenic genes. In order to prove that GM food are safe to consume, Delaney referred to 90-days lab rat studies which indicated that there were no particularly adverse effects that could be seen, only in areas where the concentration of a substance was lower but pose no threat to the animal. Likewise, there were experiments conducted with laying hens, dairy and beef cattle which had the same results. Delaney (2015) concludes: in which GM crops have been developed have benefitted from agricultural biotechnology and countries with developing economies will also benefit from application of this (p.139). Genetically Modified Organisms in Food 7 Throughout 2000 to 2010, research has indicated threats that GM foods have caused over the years as mentioned by Dona et. al and Jamal et. al articles. Scientists are still filled with uncertainties about how the modified gene would react in an actual human body as they only have the results of studies. Advancing to current day, there are studies that indicate that GM food be consumed while there are news and announcements that there are no risks in mass consumption. However, scientists are still unable find out the long-term effects of consuming GM food. All in all, it can be seen that the debate for this topic is leaning on to one side but there are some people, scientists and especially GM crop companies insisting that GM food is as healthy as organically grown food, causing the argument to be on hold. Therefore, this can be concluded that GM food should be banned until all scientists come into agreement that GM foods and crops are actually beneficial to people, and as stated by Jamal and his peers, genetic engineering is an inevitable wave for the people. Genetically Modified Organisms in Food 8 References Delaney, B. (2015). Safety assessment of foods from genetically modified crops in countries with developing economies. Food and Chemical Toxicology, 132. Doi: 10.1016/j.fct.2015.10.001 Dona, A., & Arvanitoyannis, I.S. (2009), Health risks of genetically modified foods. Critical Reviews in Food Science & Nutrition, 49(2), 164-175 Jamal, F., Haque, Q., Qidwai, T., & Paliwal, A. K. (2010). Genetically modified (GM) foods: a brief perspective. International Journal of Biotechnology & Biochemistry, (1), 13. Khan, S. J., Muafia, S., Nasreen, Z., & Salariya, A. M. (2012). Genetically modified organisms (GMOs): Food security or threat to food safety. Pakistan Journal of Science, 64(2), 6-12.