1 Saad Alghamdi ENC 1101 Mar 5, 2017 Global Car Production Success and Decline Through the years, people have invented so many ways to improve their lives and lived in a higher living standards due to the inventions that helped in easing daily life chores. We live in a modern world and have technology that have helped us to travel to the moon. Many of us do not know what are the advantage and disadvantages of this invention laying in our hand. One of those inventions are cars. Those cars are used by millions of people on a daily basis. Cars have helped us in many different ways in the past and our present day. The main benefit is that they have helped people travel thousands of miles in shorter time and have helped in bringing people closer to the people we want to be with. Over the history, car production had changes and developments. This paper will introduce few of the changes and the development of global car companies as well as historical insights on the reasons of car production success and failure. Holweg, Matthias. The genealogy of lean  Journal of operations management 25.2 (2007): 420-437. Howleg (2007) in his article genealogy of lean had discussed the historical changes Toyota cars production company had made in the past and how this company devolved over time. Toyota production system did fail in the past and took a big hit. Over time, Toyota car company management improved their management methods and have created a better system to help the company earn more money and aimed to 2 become one of the best cars production companies. Additionally, Howleg (2007) stated in his article that foundation of the Toyota Motor Company dates back to 1918, when the entrepreneur Sakichi Toyota established his spinning and weaving business based on his advanced automatic Therefore, Toyota is an old company and according to the history of car production, Toyota had developed their car business by being of of few cars company that had an advanced automatic loom. In our present day, Toyota has a lot of customers and the company holds one of the highest car sales companies in the world. History (2017). Automobiles. Retrieved from: http://www.history.com/topics/automobiles This article discusses the history of American car success, and provided evidence in Ford cars industry. During the 1920s, Henry Ford mass car production techniques and successful management led his company to be as successful as the two major car companies General Motors and Chrysler. Additionally, Ford cars success enabled it along with General Motors and Chrysler to be referred to as the auto companies. This article also discusses the reasons behind mass car production spread around the U.S. One of which is the absence of tariff between states. Such an absence allowed for the business to flourish and succeed fast. Another reason is the use of raw and cheap materials available in the U.S. Such an approach led to standardized and fast production. Additionally, Ford company decent car prices allowed it to outperformed its competitors. Ford cars were sold for a price between 575 $ for the old models and $825 for the for the newer models in 1927. However, mass production techniques had inspired other American automobile manufacturers to follow the success steps, and therefore, resulted in a huge drop in the number of car manufactures from 253 in 1908 to only 44 in 1929 3 with approximately most of car industry production accounted for by the companies. Cutcher-Gershenfeld, J. Brooks, D. Mulloy, M. (2015) The Decline and Resurgence of the U.S. Auto  Economic Policy Institute. Retrieved from: http://www.epi.org/publication/the- decline-and-resurgence-of-the-u-s-auto-industry/ Cutcher-Gershenfeld, Brooks, and Mulloy, (2015) in their article The Decline and Resurgence of the U.S. Auto had examined the decline and resurgence of the U.S. Auto Industry. The United States of America is one of big cars production countries. The U.S industry have changed over time and started to produce more cars and provide more jobs opportunities to people with an average pay rates. The historical changes in the article represents how the manufacturing success over time resulted in providing many people with better jobs and how that contributed to a better U.S economy. According to the article more holistic understanding of the industry is important since its footprint accounts for an estimated one in every 22 U.S. because the lessons are relevant to other industries facing transformational As it is shown in the article, many people received many jobs from cars production factories over time and it had helped in devolving their lives, and the economy. Sackman, J. (2016, March 29th). Automotive Companies That Retrieved from: http://www.goliath.com/auto/10-automotive-companies-that-failed/ Lastly, few car production companies have failed to succeed such as Stutz. Many Cars These car production companies have failed due to many reasons. For example, 4 Stutz in 1934 had stopped producing cars. the company was built in 1902 and they tried to keep it alive for 32 years. They had issues due to the great depression era which had generally affected many businesses. The company had tried after that to revive and maintain their business by producing fast racing cars. According to the article then built the fastest production car, clocked at a speed of 106 miles per hour in 1928, which was a record at the time. However, fortunes took a turn for the worse during the Great Depression, and the company built its last car in In conclusion, this paper had discussed and presented information in regards to the historical changes and development of Toyota, Ford cars as well as present the history of car production success and failures.