Rayfield 1 Brittney Rayfield Ms. Lay Comp II 16 April 2017 Legalizing a Plant Legalizing a plant sound weird right? Well a hot topic around the United States is legalizing marijuana. While some states have legalized it for medicinal purposes, only a few have done it recreationally. Marijuana would be good for the country to legalize for many reasons. Legalizing this plant for medicinal purposes in all fifty states would make a huge impact towards a healthier country. People should be getting involved with organizations that are working towards getting these laws passed. The reasons that marijuana should be legal go on and on. With science and research to back it up, marijuana has been known to almost cure certain illnesses. For an example, a study from 2012 found that cannabidiol may help treat schizophrenia. In this study, 42 patients randomly received either cannabidiol or amisulpride, an effective drug used for the treatment of schizophrenia (Poindexter). Tetrahydrocannabinol, better known as THC, targets different receptors in the brain, nervous system, liver, kidney and lungs. These receptors are used to help with pain or noxious chemicals such as chemotherapy (Zimmerman). Also, many other tests and studies have been shown where marijuana calms other illnesses such as: parkinsons disease, Alzheimer disease, epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, and bipolar disorder. So many people in the United States suffer from these diseases and disorders and they could be fixed just by legalizing medical marijuana. Cancer patients deal with pain and nausea every day. The cannabinoid receptors turn off the release of inhibitory neurotransmitters Rayfield 2 meaning that dopamine cannot be released. This slows the body down and relaxes it. (Hoffman). A lot of people are against smoking marijuana because although some of the chemicals in the drug help with certain things, it is also extremely bad for your lungs. Smoking one joint of marijuana is equivalent to smoking twenty cigarettes (DebatingEurope). On the flip side, there are so many forms of marijuana that people could use and not harm their bodies. There are edibles, oils, pills, and even lotions and creams. Parents of children with any of the mentioned diseases: if this could save your life, would you let them use it? Even though marijuana is illegal in most states, many people travel to Colorado where it is recreationally legal and get the best of the best; sometimes for an illness or disease or just simply because it makes them feel better. Getting informed and involved would be the right step to take to getting marijuana legalized. Reading the facts on the internet and doing research on studies and other tests can show how helpful marijuana really is and could be in the U.S. There are many websites and organizations where donations are accepted. The donations go towards funding projects that work on passing legislations in different states. You could make a difference and donate to these organizations that fight for the legalization. Legalizing marijuana for all of the previously mentioned purposes would make a difference in the nation. Medical marijuana can help with a lot of illnesses. You can make a difference by getting involved and donating to organizations that fight for it. Getting marijuana legalized would be the right step for this country. Rayfield 3 Works Cited DebatingEurope. Arguments for and against legalising cannabis. 2009. 2 March 2017. <http://www.debatingeurope.eu/focus/arguments-legalising-cannabis/#.WCKD6eErL- Y>. Hoffman, Sandra. Biology for Non-Majors, February 2017, Social Sciences Building, Tampa, FL. Poindexter, Owen. 6 Powerful Reasons to Legalize Marijuana, From the New York Times. 31 July 2014. 3 March 2017. <http://www.alternet.org/drugs/6-powerful-reasons-new-york- times-says-end-marijuana-prohibition>. Zimmermann, Kim Ann. Medical Marijuana: Benefits, Risks & State Laws. 14 January 2015. 2 March 2017. <http://www.livescience.com/24554-medical-marijuana.html>. Marijuana Policy Project, Take Action. 2017. 8 March 2017. <https://www.mpp.org/takeaction/>