Sai Kaung Kham Cett Instructor Carr ENC1101.016 3/5/2017 Children and video games Video games were once viewed as a source of entertainment which can cause a lot of distractions due to its addictiveness. However, video games are now seen in more different perspectives such as how video games can build different kind of skillsets for the children and even how you can start to make living by playing these games. This is somehow a thing that parents find difficult to accept even in this generation. It was seen that way because the researchers mainly focused on the negative impacts of video games but now, studies and researches are being made on the positive impacts of playing video games too and there are quite a lot of things children can actually gain by playing video games. More than a decade ago, all that parents want is for their children to stop playing games and to not get hooked but now, they are realizing that some games can be educational and helpful for their children. Porter, the author of problem video game which was written in 2007, focused on how video games are having negative impacts on the children in New Zealand. He came up with this conclusion by making surveys to find out how children feel about playing video games. After all the survey he made, he stated that video games can be addicting to a point where children are falling into the traps of not being able to socialize just because most of their times are spent playing video games, some cannot keep up with grades the grades too and most would even play games to a point where they consume excessive amount of caffeine to keep up with themselves which also leads to the children not being able to sleep causing them to be unhealthy. During the survey he made, he also noticed that video games have a different kind of addiction, an addiction which causes the children to play even though they know that they should not play and even when they want to play. This kind of addiction may not seem big but this means that children are playing video games either when they are not in the mood to, they just play video games because they feel like they have nothing better to do and the more they sit on the chair playing games, the less they want to get up and enjoy the life outside which could lead to children living an unhealthy lifestyle at an early age. On the other hand, the author of Games Promotes Saudi English Vocabulary Retention Alshaji believes that video games could play a huge positive role for children growing up because of the studies he made where children were taught English by video games. In the article, he went on to talk about how Saudi children are taught English by playing video games and how this process had been very efficient to the children. The combination of learning and entertainment in the same process makes the children more interested in what they are learning. He also believes that educational video games are the best way for the children to learn while growing up since it will be more enjoyable for the children of young ages too. It is not just the language teaching skill of video games that he believed. As time passes, the technology available for use are being upgraded too and he claimed that video games not only improve children in creativity and decision making skills, he also believed that video games are readying the children to catch up with the tech life of the 21 st century. He mentioned that by playing video games, children get to know about the devices they are using and how the devices work. Even though he knows how strongly some parents feel about video games could worsen their children, he claims that parents just know about how video games can make good impact on their children. Back in 2010, the author of of Violent and Non-violent Computer Video Games on Explicit and Implicit stated that some online video games are too competitive among players which could trigger aggression within the players. Communications made during the game among the players can be toxic and since the games can be very competitive, some players would rage when they lose or while they are losing which could lead to physical raging like throwing objects which are nearby and mental issues just like losing a game of soccer. These rage constantly create conflicts between players, even teammates sometimes making it an unhealthy relationship between friends. The game of blame is where players start blaming others for the loss a game making conflicts and unnecessary fights. The author also stated how some video games include violent and aggressive gameplay which could mess up with thoughts and point of views in life. The game Grand Theft Auto made its debut long time ago which was a first-person game where you can control a person to do anything at all, from hijacking a car to killing. He also stated how these influences made by violent video games can cause children to have violent behaviors having to mimic what is going on in the game in real life. Bavelier, the author of brain boosting power of video (2016) strongly believes that many video games whether it be violent or not, can have good impacts on children. He believes that playing video games can be a way to improve the power the brain in many different ways such as concentration, flexibility to switch form one task to another and faster processing of information. Even some games can help you to improve your reaction time or decision time based on how you handle it. This kind of skill can also make an impact in life where you have to be decisive while doing something. Even though he believes that any type of games, no matter violent or not, can have good impacts, he still suggested that designing more non-violent games can reduce the concern of behavioral aggression and addiction to gaming. He also claimed that skills such as decision making under pressure are also improved by playing face paced video games such as first person shooting games and they can also improve their reaction times to their actions which can be honed by playing these kinds of face paced video games. In conclusion, as video games were seen as more of negative entertainments for the children, that idea has changed over the years. First of all, video games just entertainments anymore. It has become a way for some people to make their living by. There are professional video gamers out there making millions of dollars just by playing games. Video games are starting to be seen as a type of sport too of what they call an electronic sport. People are paying to watch the professionals play games and the merchandise are being sold too. In a way, this field has become a money making field too. Second of all, video games can really have impact on you if you play it right and in a right amount. They can change how you think or how fast can you think depending on how and which games you played to.