3/25/2017 Effects of global warming and acid rain. Solutions and drawbacks to ideas. 1 Solutions and drawbacks to ideas. Abstract: This is a historiographic essay that is written to compare two time zones and discuss succinctly, the various changes incurred during the time phases. The essay describes the changes and claims that were made by several authors about the effects of global warming and acid rain between the years 2000-2010 and 2011 to 2017. Each time phase consists of two sources to bring to light, the evidence of changes that took place. The first time zone was about finding various issues related to global warming and acid rain and ways to tackle them and on the other hand, the next time phase was about new ideas. New origins of pollution were being tracked down and new technologies were established to reduce them. Several scientists carried out ground breaking research on the origins and solutions to these global threat that has taken a very dangerous form with coming times. The essay also contains the ideas brought up by the stakeholders. 2 Solutions and drawbacks to ideas. Sadhman Farhan Nancy Carr ENC1101.016S17 26 th March 2017 Effects of acid rain and greenhouse gases on the environment The discovery of environmental pollution that are largely led by greenhouse gas effects and acid rain started back in the mid-18 th . Ever since then, attempts were made to tackle the global impacts due to these environmental threats. I am particularly interested in evaluating how researchers came up with solutions to this issues of environmental problem. I believe, the thoughts towards these issues has significantly changed with time. For instance, the time phase from 2000 to 2010 supposedly was aimed at governmental failures to circulate laws and regulations in order to control global warming and acid rain. Claims were also made that excessive use of fossil fuels were a major area of concern as it enhanced these pollutions. However, from 2011 to 2015, it was seen that direct attack towards familiar pollutants as well as blaming governmental bodies deteriorated and solutions for reducing the pollutants were attempted by discovery of new unfamiliar sources of pollutions and also increasing awareness of health problems due to the pollutants. In this essay, I will share both sides of scholarly articles that had claimed ways and possibilities to resolve environmental pollution. For instance in 2006, Ayhan Demirbas argues that protocol, an international treaty claimed that governments do not take actions to reduce greenhouse gas (Demirbus, 2006, page.25). He also mentioned that only some developed nations take steps to reduce the air 3 Solutions and drawbacks to ideas. pollutants. He constantly tried to describe how pollution included several mixture of gases saying that air pollution is said to be a broad topic which covered a lot of other pollutants such as carbon dioxide, fly ash, acid rain and CFCs. Ayhan also mentioned the consequences that could take place if the threats are not mitigated and as a result he had foreseen that sea level could rise a lot more due to the melting of ice in Antarctica which will cause flood in vast areas of land. In his own words he said climate change is an issue for which energy questions will be the subject of considerable international political (Demirbus, 2006, pg.78). He reinforced the topic that global warming is a concern for the nation and the people as a whole. I really find it interesting on how the author believes that government has not been able to come together about mitigating the environmental issue and the lack of unity of the world to be able to work in order to prevent global warming. I think, it is not just the government that has the duty to save the country but it is also the responsibility of the people that live within it. In another source taken from the year 2008, the authors Veziroglu and Sahin brought into light that fossil fuel was being used enormously as the one and only source of energy and therefore this was causing a threat to the natural resource and at the same time it is increasing air pollution. For example, the authors mention that demand for energy continues to rise for two main reasons: a) the continuing increase in world population. b) The growing demand by the developing countries in order to improve their living (Veziroglu et. al, 2008, pg.1).This had put up how important the production of energy has become. Therefore they claimed that hydrogen energy system was among the best alternates in order to reduce the use of fossil fuels and also is considered a much cleaner source of energy. Veziroglu et al. also mentioned another prototypes that could also be debated to be a better alternate than the proposed project such as synthetic fossil fuel system but in the end declared hydrogen energy system as the best replacement of fossil fuels. The 4 Solutions and drawbacks to ideas. short listed a few points that must be present in the chosen alternative source of energy i.e. the fuel must be convenient to be carried; it must be easily convertible to other energy forms and finally it needs to be safe. The said that we need to manufacture a fuel for the post fossil fuel era, we are in a position to select the best fossil (Veziroglu et.al, 2008, pg.3). It is clear to this point that researchers are working very hard to come up with an alternate to fossil fuel in order to save the nature and the people from the aftermath of environmental pollution that awaits in the future. While the time phase from 2000 to 2010 mentions about the hazards and invention of better sources of energy for the replacement of using fossil fuels, the time zone from 2011 to 2015 had different ideas to tackle the consequences of global warming and acid rain. For instance in 2013, the author Merrill Singer explained about the various respiratory problems caused due to the degradation of air with time. He described the threat to the immune system of body saying during a critical developmental life period may lead to the reallocation of energy away from the production of crucial immune and inflammatory response (Singer, 2013, pg.99). Merrill argued that in the United States, various races of people had different rates of asthma. From an example that he mentioned, Puerto Rican children had 26 percent more lifetime asthma prevalence compared to Mexican American children who had 12 percent lifetime asthma rate. Singer has also mentioned that, quality of air that we breathe has significantly diminished over the last several decades as the interaction of global warming with the other forms of anthropogenic environmental (Singer, 2013, pg.1). This source states how the author tries to explain that air pollution is causing health problems and especially respiratory syndromes due to the quality of air and I firmly agree with this claim as we 5 Solutions and drawbacks to ideas. all know that we need oxygen to live and we inhale it from our surroundings and therefore presence of pollutants in it means that we are at risk of health problems. Furthermore, in 2015, Sanchez, Artola, Font, Gea, Barrena, Gabriel and Mondini talked about a new origin of air pollution called composting that causes gaseous emissions such as carbon dioxide; methane; nitrous oxide etc. Sanchez et al. claimed that some of these gases are inherent to the process but the other half can be treated using low cost processes such as bio-filtration. The authors also said that is an environmentally friendly waste treatment process where organic matter is biologically (Sanchez et. al., 2015, pg.225). The authors makes a deep analysis on the measurements of air pollutants to obtain reliable factors for the different composting technologies. Sanchez et al. claims that the use of composting has a positive effect in farming since carbon dioxide is trapped in soil as well as other nutrients that are present in low levels. The comparison of two different time zones has led to the conclusion that global warming and acid rain trends are taking a different route in the minds of researchers and general people. In one time scope, there was a debate of what caused greenhouse gases and acid rain in general and a race to finding alternatives for fossil fuels and in the other time zone, there was an attempt to find sources that also caused greenhouse gas emissions and at the same time, criticizing the air quality standards which degraded causing deadly lifetime diseases due to the pollution. I think that some new issues have been raised through this problems including the plans of future to remove global warming. 6 Solutions and drawbacks to ideas. References Demirbas, A. (2006). Hazardous emissions, global climate change and environmental precautions. Energy sources. Part B, Economics, planning and policy, 1(1), 75-84. T. N., & S. (2008). 21st energy: Hydrogen energy system. Energy Conversion & Management, 49(7), 1820-1831. doi:10.1016/j.enconman. 2007.08.015 Singer, M. (2013). Respiratory health and ecosyndemics in a time of global warming. Health Sociology Review, (1), 98. 7 Solutions and drawbacks to ideas. emissions from organic waste composting. Environmental Chemistry Letters, 13(3), 223. A., Artola, A., Font, X., Gea, T., Barrena, R., Gabriel, D., & ... Mondini, C. (2015). Greenhouse gas doi:10.1007/s10311-015-0507-5