Student: Danish Siddiqui Instructor: Nancy Carr Class: ENC 1101 Composition I Date: 02/19/2017 The Growing Threat of Cybercrime Computer crime has been an issue in criminal justice and criminology since the 1970s. Over the years, the types of computer crimes have been classified in two ways. First, a prevalent activity is that of criminals directly involved in stealing computers. Second, criminals use these computer machines to commit crimes Cybercrime is on an upward trajectory since the launch of the internet. Internet users are also continuously getting sophisticated by the day. Security of users in a networked cyberspace is a serious concern to both the users, companies with businesses, and agencies tasked with the responsibility of ensuring public safety in all areas of daily living. To combat cybercrimes, all stakeholders need to be vigilant. However, with the increasing sophistication of cybercrimes, it has proved challenging to avert the criminal activities surrounding the cyberspace. To understand the challenges, and extent of the threat cybercrime all parties engaged in the network it is crucial to comprehend the definition and few concepts regarding cybercrimes. Cybercrime is a criminal act when one uses any electronic machine with intention to cause harm to someone this is not only limited to invading privacy or bullying someone but also other fraudulent acts such as infiltrating personal information, business trade secrets, or use the Internet for exploitive or malicious purposes Cybercrime has evolved over time, and so is the mechanisms and legislations aimed at curbing the vice. New discussions emerge now and then from academia, law experts and law enforcers concerning the possible solutions to cybercrime. This paper seeks to clarify what entails a cybercrime, how has the threat evolved over time, and what are the challenges and possible strategies to combating cybercrimes? Annotated bibliography Wall, D. S. (2007). Policing cybercrimes: Situating the public police in networks of security within cyberspace. Police practice & research, 8(2), 183-205 The author focuses on the nature on cybercrimes and how the law enforcing agency are situated to curb the vice. The article highlights the various conceptions and nature of cybercrimes, and how each relates to legal channels in place. It describes the different forms of what was perceived as cybercrime during the development of the legislation and amendments in place as compared to the current nature of the same. Mr. Wall argue that global nature of the cybercrimes poses a significant challenge to police jurisdiction when trying to identify and bring the offenders to justice. In addition, the intensive online networks render fighting cybercrime more than complex as well as make the commonly confined police interventions inferior, small and ineffective. The author purports that the public ways of internet crimes policing ought to change from the offence capacity, and knowledge acquisition approaches, to developing significant relationships between the security agencies and other parties within the internet network. The article relevantly relates to the topic objectives. Mr. Wall presents solid arguments highlighting what constitutes a cybercrime under the law, and different forms of the cybercrime activities. The article points out various challenges that the current police institutions face while fighting cybercrime. Mr. Wall keenly points to the fact that police involvement in cyber policing is limited and inefficient. The article is also significant in offering suggestions on areas of improvement that the lawmakers, experts, and the law enforcers can implement to be a step ahead of the cybercrime perpetrators. Pearson, T. A., & Singleton, T. W. (2008). Fraud and forensic accounting in the digital environment. Issues in accounting education, 23(4), 545-559 The article introduces forensic accounting and fraud examination as new hot subjects in the contemporary accounting field as measures taken to curb an increasing trend of cybercrimes in the financial world. It points out the fact that majority of commercial activities and operations are carried out through the use of internet necessitates the need for intensifying the security for internet money transactions. It brings into the light some of the well-publicized online scandals concerning money, as a way of depicting the increasing threat that cybercrime is posting to the world of finance. Some of the vital aspects causing the increased demand for the heightening of online security through the acquisition of the new subjects, as per the article, include the lack of an explicit knowledge of both fraud auditing procedures and financial auditing techniques. The brings into perspective the financial and economic consequences of cybercrimes. The article is relevant in bringing on a financial implication to the cybercrime activities. The author provides answers on the evolution of cybercrime activities to organized gangs carrying out cyber-attacks for financial gains. Authors Pearson and Singleton illustrate some mechanisms and technologies that can be handy in fighting cyber-attacks on financial institutions. The article resonate well with the objectives of the topic. Skibell, R. (2003). Cybercrimes & misdemeanors: A reevaluation of the computer fraud and abuse act. Berkeley technology law journal, 18(3), 909-944 Skibell advocates that cybercrimes are real and requires appropriate measures to be deployed which includes the devising of protective acts and laws. However, the article points out that no matter how intensive and harmful the cybercriminal activities are, a clear distinction between human oppression and fighting crime ought to manifest. The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA) and other U.S anti-cybercrime acts form the basis for the discussion. Mr.Skibell argues that the CFAA ability to differentiate between a noble online action and cybercrime has changed from its 1986 version due to increased efforts to curb the continuously emerging criminal activities. Regarding the other two acts, that is the Cyber Security Enhancement Act and the U.S Patriot Act; the article purports that other than being ineffective, they are exceedingly unjust and lead to gross mistreatment of the U.S citizens. The article exhibits legislative challenges that exist locally and how citizens perceive some of the enacted laws. The author suggests a broader and generalized legislation does not offer much to enhancing cyber security. The article suggests that there is an increasing threat of cybercrimes, consequently leading to stiffer controls that may not seem to resonate well with current challenges. Tuluc, A. M. (2012). Economic processes associated with the cybercrime industry. Economics, management & financial markets, 7(2), 179-184. Mr. Tuluc focuses on the effectiveness of measures employed to combat cybercrime practices, the impact of cybercrime on internet users, the general digital world insecurity, as well as on the issue of cybercrime industry evolution. The article declares that anti-cybercrime measures ought to extend beyond conventional crimes control initiatives so as to fit the unique cybercrime problem. The issue of inexperienced law enforcers combined with the vulnerable legal systems serves as signifiers of the control measures ineffectiveness. It points out that cybercrimes impact internet users negatively. The hacking of financial accounts or transactions causes significant losses to the affected persons. They, on the other hand, benefit the perpetrators of the crimes. The author also notes that the law enforcers may lack adequate data to work on. The actual impact of the offenses is however hardly known to the world as many cases go unreported leading to a significant information gap. Mr. Tuluc adds a perspective of an evolving crime on the cyberspace. According to the findings of the author, the current measures deployed to tame cybercrimes are likely to be obsolete. It proposes that interventions to tackle cybercrime need to be dynamic focusing on the present and future problem adequately. Mayer, J. (2016). Cybercrime litigation. University of Pennsylvania law review, 164(6), 14531507 This article suggests that anti-cybercrime laws legislation by many American federal government has been based on narratives that hardly appreciate the real problem. It reiterates that both the past and the present laws, such as the computer abuse liability, do not impact the current challenges effectively as they cannot even manage the least of such problems in the nation. The author posits that the efforts put forward by the Congress Members as well as prosecutors in the United States, those of endorsing the legislative move, are ineffective since they lack factual basement during their development. The ineffectiveness is further purported to be originating from the over-broadness of the legislation that allows hackers to escape after committing cybercrime offenses. Mayer introduces the study on cybercrime litigation by first of all affirming that indeed technological misconducts have become the order of the day in modern time. The article credibly points out that there is a need to devise new legal technics to manage the new problem as both the old and present legal approaches have been proven ineffective in mitigating the challenge. The article proved significant in answering the questions posed in this paper. The author illustrates how cybercrimes have evolved and suggests some strategies to keep up to speed with the cyber criminals. Ortner, D. (2015). Cybercrime and punishment: The Russian mafia and Russian responsibility to exercise due diligence to prevent trans-boundary cybercrime. Brigham Young University law review, 2015(1), 177-217 The Russian Mafia group is said to be enjoying massive financial gains by hacking foreign accounts. That is said by the article to be the reason why the group continuously terrorizes world consumers of the internet for personal gains. The group is also suggested to be highly skilled which, together with the additional contribution into the scam by the Russian- speaking nations as asserted by the author, increases the network and threat. Organized groups do the crimes, and the cost surpasses the ones captured in the reports. However, the lack of precise knowledge on whether nations have an obligation in protecting other people in the world from consequences caused by their (the particular countries) citizens acts as a primary reason as to why cybercrime is gaining prevalence day and night. The article examines the role of a nation in both promoting as well as mitigating the current problem caused by cybercriminals to the world internet users. It reiterates that nations have direct responsibility to practice due diligence regarding the protection of trans-boundary cybercrimes. The article provides a global perspective to the vice and suggests a global collaboration to fight the cyber-attacks. The author is relevant to the topic as they present the current challenges along with appropriate solutions.