- 1 - Environmental protection is conducive to human development Environmental protection is conducive to human development Bangyan Lin Instructor Carr ENC1101 26/ March/2017 - 2 - Environmental protection is conducive to human development At the beginning of human society, humans believe that nature has unlimited resources. But now, the excessive consumption of natural resources, Causing climate change. Typhoons, landslides, red tide, etc. Many people lose their lodging because of natural disasters, and even die. People realize that environmental problems are a series of consequences caused by environmental damage. Now people gradually reflect on the previous development path. Today, Improper economic development will bring environmental problems, especially in developing countries. People think that money is more important than the environment. We have only one earth for human to live on. However, some countries are poor because they can only develop the economy first and they may pollute the environment for money. As environmental pollution becomes more and more serious, a lot of countries begin to notice environmental pollution. In some developing countries, environmental pollution is very serious. Most of them have begun to focus on solving pollution problems. We ought to sustainable consumption that is beneficial for our life. Farzana (2016) believes that  Calls for more research to consider sustainability standards in order to promote sustainable consumption practices. by  (p.1). Babayemi, J. O., Ogundiran, M. B., & Osibanjo, O. (2016). Overview of Environmental Hazards and Health Effects of Pollution in Developing Countries: A Case Study of Nigeria. Environmental Quality Management, (1), 51. doi:10.1002/tqem.21480 Environmental destruction of the outstanding performance of several aspects: First, land is contaminated by factory sewage, the land will not grow plants. These will lead to less food and will eventually affect humans. It will harm human health and bring more - 3 - Environmental protection is conducive to human development social problems. Third, the biological construction of a large number of houses, a large number of factories, the natural environment becomes less, animals will be less and less. PING, Z., SONG, Y., & RUCONG, Y. (2010). Long-Term Changes in Rainfall over Eastern China and Large-Scale Atmospheric Circulation Associated with Recent Global Warming. Journal Of Climate, 23(6), 1544-1562. doi:10.1175/2009JCLI2660.1 Environmental pollution will lead to global warming, bad weather endanger human survival. the real weapon of mass . (Michael Howard. 2012, p.1) Author using precipitation data from rain gauge stations over China, in past few years the climate increased the rainy season, resulting in frequent occurrence of flash floods. However, in the northern region has led to drought, food to reduce income, elevated temperatures will create large typhoons, hurricanes and other disasters. Suffered and faced catastrophe every year more and more, The number of lost lives and money is growing, a large number of rainy season in the south led to frequent floods, many houses were destroyed. Borthakur, A. (2016). Health and environmental hazards of electronic waste in India. Journal Of Environmental Health, (8), 18. With the rapid development of information technology. Now the electronics product is upgrading, e-waste as a problem in world. impacts health and the environment by entering the food chain in the form of chemical toxicants and exposing the population to deleterious (Anwesha. 2012, p.1) The author believes that the the unreasonable treatment of these e-waste than disposal will cause great environmental pollution. The United States is the largest consumer of electronic - 4 - Environmental protection is conducive to human development products, but also the largest producer of electronic waste. Beginning in 2002, the United States introduced a waste recycling regulations. The bill provides that customers have to pay e-waste recycling fees. High trade deficit led to many businessmen to take risks, transport electronic waste ship to developing or underdeveloped areas to dump or sell. (Anwesha. 2012, p.5) The authors mentioned that in India they received a large number of electronic waste from developed countries. They use simple tools to handle these rubbish, or even use hammers and scissors to separate put remaining parts into the fire. However, contaminated water can free into the ground inside cause land contamination. The influx of a large number of electronic waste, causing environmental destruction. In general, chemicals from EWMs have slow metabolic rates in animals and may bioaccumulate in tissues and be available in edible products, such as eggs and milk (Frazzoli, 2010,p14). Local people have poor health their children are playing in the rubbish mountain. Now leading to more and more children get the disease. Already poor families because the disease becomes poorer. But they have no other source of income, only more hard to deal with electronic waste. It lead to a vicious circle. Sancho, F. (2010). Double dividend effectiveness of energy tax policies and the elasticity of substitution: A CGE appraisal. Energy Policy, 38(6), 2927-2933. The authors discuss the tax levied by the government. That the environmental protection tax can promote fiscal revenue, but not the best way. With the development of thinking. The model we present in this article is a technologically adaptable computable general equilibrium (CGE) model designed for the evaluation of energy tax policies.( Ferran - 5 - Environmental protection is conducive to human development Sancho. 2010. P11 ) More and more countries began to set the law to build a beautiful environment. The government imposes high taxes on high-polluting enterprises to limit pollution. Loans to enterprises to buy energy-saving equipment. Environmental protection is conducive to human development. position is that... by way of checking the responsiveness of equilibria to revenue neutral tax regimes under alternate scenarios regarding technological substitution. (Ferran Sancho. 2010, p.1) The government promotes the sustainable development of the factory by making tax. This is why sustainable consumption is good for our life. If we do not pay attention to environmental protection, the victim is their own. Sustainable development will improve the economic level and protect the development of animals and plants. - 6 - Environmental protection is conducive to human development Reference Babayemi, J. O., Ogundiran, M. B., & Osibanjo, O. (2016). Overview of Environmental Hazards and Health Effects of Pollution in Developing Countries: A Case Study of Nigeria. Environmental Quality Management, (1), 51. doi:10.1002/tqem.21480v Borthakur, A. (2016). Health and environmental hazards of electronic waste in India. Journal Of Environmental Health, (8), 18. Quoquab, F., & Mohammad, J. (2016). Sustainable Consumption: Sacrificing for the Future. Procedia - Social And Behavioral Sciences, 224(IRSSM-6 The 6th International Research Symposium in Service Management), 599-604. doi:10.1016/j.sbspro.2016.05.449 PING, Z., SONG, Y., & RUCONG, Y. (2010). Long-Term Changes in Rainfall over Eastern China and Large-Scale Atmospheric Circulation Associated with Recent Global Warming. Journal Of Climate, 23(6), 1544-1562. doi:10.1175/2009JCLI2660.1 http://www.lib.usf.edu/