Salem1 Dave Salem Carr Composition 1 February 19, 2017 Gun Laws: Helpful or Hurtful Every year new shootings occur all throughout the United States and every year regular civilians like you and me are affected by these senseless people who seem like main goal is to wreak havoc. And when America has problems it is up to us to pick the more rational solution. When we first came over from England there were not enough settlers, money or time to make an army so it was up to each man of the house (or girl) to care of themselves, their family and their country in the case of an attack. Whether it was native Americans, Britain or even a dangerous animal were all things that would lead for most people to own their own gun. It till 1934 after the Saint day massacre that America would then be introduced to gun laws. America originally lived almost two centuries without gun laws. Now as an American and someone who enjoys options I like the idea of the second amendment and believe it is one of the most important amendments we have. I would never wish to use a firearm or any weapon of that matter on a human being but it makes me sleep good at night knowing that that much safer. The following statistics will show you why too strict gun laws will actually hurt good people by making it easier for bad people. Salem1 Americas opinion on Gun Laws Shughart, W. I. (1999). More Guns, Less Crime: Understanding Crime and Gun Control Laws. Southern Economic Journal, (4), 978. This is a research based article from the Gallup poll briefing in April of 2017. Shughart explains that 63% of Americans wanted stricter gun laws and every major shooting incident increases these statistics. We also find that they did not want new gun laws but rather more enforce the same laws that are already in place. The poll shows that most Americans agree that if a regular civilian (with the proper background check and mental stability) that you too should be able to possess a firearm rather than just police and other authorized personnel. This however was not the case in 1959 when 60% of the population believed that only police and other authorized personnel should be allowed to carry guns. That statistic dropped 50% over the next 20 years. Shugharts survey found that most democrats want stricter gun laws while 60% of republicans think they should remain the same. It is no surprise that democrats are also more likely to support the banning of possession of handguns then republicans, though the majority of both sides tend to oppose this idea. This survey has also found a difference between genders. They found that men are more satisfied with the gun laws and less likely to favor stricter gun laws. One thing the majority of Americans do agree on is that 9 out of 10 Americans believe that people purchasing guns require a government background check. All in all, the Gallup surveys Salem1 find that the majority of America is open to stricter laws for buying firearms and enforcing more rigorous control on the current gun laws. Concealed carry. Hurtful or helpful Lott, J. J. (1998). More guns, less crime : understanding crime and gun-control laws. Chicago : University of Chicago Press, 1998. This article explains whether or not concealed weapons permit help society rather than hurting it. Lott starts off with saying how that we can all agree that the American culture is a gun culture. And now how millions of Americans are armed but rather how gun laws are always talked about in politics and that there are seen and heard throughout movies, songs, tv shows etc. Lott goes in depth on how many subjects regarding the cause and effects of more or less gun control and concealed weapon permits. Lott backs it up with statistics and other forms of data to show correlations between each of his arguments. He explains about how Lott talks about the way that criminals, although they are criminals still think like regular people and if you were going to say rob a person you would definitely want to think twice if you knew that person was armed and dangerous. His final conclusion is that no 100% guarantee that a single cause will have a single effect, at least not in the real world. He says how the national crime is horrible but fortunately its decreasing whether the increase concealed weapon permits, economic factors or the Brady law (a federal law that requires participants to wait while a thorough background check is done). Between 1992 and 1997 crime dropped fifteen percent, including less property crimes and less murders. It is a legitimate source and comes from the Harvard journal on legislation. Colleges and gun laws Salem1 Fennell, R. (2009). Concealed Carry Weapon Permits: A Second Amendment Right or a Recipe for Disaster on Our Campuses?. Journal Of American College Health, 58(2), 99- 100. doi:10.1080/07448480903340338 This article addresses the realization of having a shooter at a college campus and states relevant statistics to the issue. Facts like, what percentage of students brings weapons to campus once in a thirty day period and how many students bring weapons daily to campus. Fennel explains the laws for colleges that allow conceal carry and also explains laws to the few schools that do allow concealed carry. It explains the proposed ideas of having more colleges allow concealed weapon permits. Of course with allowing that also allows the greater chance of someone taking his or her anger out on an innocent person. This article also brings up new questions like many students with permits would carry weapons on campus, if they had the le- gal right to do so? How often do students with CCW permits carry their Or if someone was forced to shoot a person that is hurting people and the cops arrived and they shot the good guy instead. All of these new questions are relevant when creating new laws. Gun Law Statistics Barone, E. (2016). One Nation, Up In Arms. Time, (16). This article is really just a list of the current statistics regarding gun owners, amount of firearms sold, the amount of a certain type of firearm within the US, and where the strictest and weakest gun laws are. This article informs us that the most restrictive state is California where as Arizona has the weakest gun laws. And strange enough you find that the crime rate difference is not as different as think. crime rate is Salem1 30 per 100,000 people while crime rate is 34 per 100,000 people. And then the article mentions that that within the last 30 gun sales have gone up while homicide rates have been trending down. This article is very helpful with its relevant and current statistics of the gun laws throughout the US. It also tells us more statistics like how in 2009 there were 310 million guns owned and some facts about the Brady law, which was mentioned earlier in this essay. Gun Laws at Work Glazer-Esh, E. (2010). law: why it has employers up in arms and what the Florida legislature should do about it. University Of Miami Law Review, (2), 663. This is a lengthy article explaining concealed weapons in the workplace. Glazer-Esh explains legitimate statistics to back up his argument and explains how gun laws could do more good than bad. Glazer-Esh explains in details about the gun laws within a work place and whether if someone owns a premises/building is allowed to now allow certain laws in their building like gun laws. Some owners do not want people in their buildings having a concealed weapons but other people think differently. It talks about the federal jurisdiction and what they have to say about these complaints. The article explains about at and how the NRA (nation rifle association) and other gun owners are rather upset about the new law. People carrying firearms at work could lead to unwanted problem and most likely death. All it would take is one hot head to own a firearm and then their boss or another worker to get them mad and possibly use it. Salem1 Solutions Emerson, E. (2016). Scientific evidence should inform politicized debates. Science News, 189(10), 2. Emersons article explains how the best known way of finding a possible solution to any problem is through scientific studying. However, since this is a subject relating to humans its very challenging since humans are relatively unpredictable. But that stop scientist from pursuing a solution to this ongoing problem. Emerson also explains that gun law information is not nearly as clear cut as think. Background checks, waiting periods and assault weapon bans almost never have correlation between a reduction in violence. There are states with a high amount of gun laws that have relatively low crime rates and there are also states with high gun laws yet still have low crime rates and also vice versa to having low gun laws. It will take years and probably even decades to make these laws better. But since humans are not perfect I do not believe these laws will ever be perfect. Even if America was to ban all firearms they would surely make their way in here just like the 1000s of guns that come in from Mexico weekly. But we will find better solutions as time goes on and for that I thank the scientist and researchers.