Reynoso 1 Paola Reynoso Prof. Lay ENC 1102 2 May 2017 Wake Up: Time Your child is at school and looks around, are you sure they feel safe? Gun violence is a problem that has been addressed for a while now. According to of an it started on August 1, 1966, when a 24-year-old architectural engineering and ex-marine, Charles Whitman, started shooting in the clock tower at University of Texas. During the shooting of 96 minutes, he killed about 16 people, counting and unborn child, and wounded 30 more. He previously killed his mother and wife, who was 23, and he left two notes (NBC News). of an states, killing spree introduced the nation to the concept of a mass  outside the context of a military (NBC News). Furthermore, after this mass shooting, other incidents occurred like the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, Senator Robert Kennedy, and Martin Luther King. According to of by Kevin Clarke and James Martin, gun control was a result of gun violence in society due to the rising crime rates in urban areas and the shocking assassination of the three great leaders mentioned previously. During the time it took for the Gun Control Act of 1968 to be passed, the National Riffle Association (NRA) helped make it possible. But with a new shift in leadership and its goals, the NRA became a supporter of the Second Amendment rights and stopped supporting gun control legislations after the Act of 1968 was passed (Clarke and James 31). Jason Sterzer mentions, in the article Good, the Bad, and the Reynoso 2 that the Second Amendment, which is part of the Bill of Rights, states that well- regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be After the ratification of the Bill of Rights in December 1971, the strict regulations of possessing and owning a gun and the Second Amendment has influenced rights and their right to have arms (Sterzer 173). According to Jonathan Metzler, who wrote for the The Yale Law Journal, currently, the Second Amendment is not related to the militia but to the right of self-defense (Metzler 1516). The NRA supports the Second Amendment, so that the Carry Legislation can pass. This is not to say that it is inappropriate to have the right to bear arms, but it will definitely be dangerous to make the Carry Legislation legal in the states that do not have it yet. If it happens, then there would not be any safe environment for your kid because having the Carry Legislation means that there will not be any background checks when buying a gun, which means that there will be more access to weapons. Throughout the years there has been the passing of laws that are related to guns and ownership. Metzler says that none of the laws that have been passed implicate the right to carry arms. In fact, all these laws are to decrease the use of weapons and create public safety. Although this is true, none of the laws have infringed the right to own a gun. In addition, there is an emphasis of the lack of the use of arms in urban areas and during the night because this can cause more harm than good towards the safety of the community (Metzler 1509). Gun Control Act differs from the Second Amendment in that gun control has the purpose of maintaining communities safe by preventing and avoiding gun violence. Having gun control as a legal aspect gives a sense of security for individuals, families and communities. To maintain environments and people secure wherever we are, especially your children, as a parent you will need to educate others. Reynoso 3 As parents you should care because it concerns the life of your child. By having the Carry Legislation everyone would have the right to bear arms, and people due to lack of knowledge think that because they have the right, they have to bear arms. With the majority of the population having guns, there is a greater probability that the weapons will be used as a result of fear, selfishness, madness, and jealousy. The media and the violent culture can lead society into violence. There would not be a difference between the citizens and authority and instead of serving justice, vengeance will be served. This is clearly a place that is not safe for children and future generations. As a parent you would think that an environment where many people have guns is a threat to your child and your family. Children, as well as you, can be affected directly or indirectly; they can be killed or injured, or loose a love one like a family member or a friend. As a parent you do not want your daughter or son to suffer. Are you ready for your child to be the next victim? NO. If the Carry Legislation passes in every state, the environment would be untrustworthy. It will be a setting where you would not be able to trust anyone because you do not know their intentions. An environment surrounded by people who own guns can quickly and instantly turn into a mass murder. Also you do not want your child to be around people who own guns and have bad temper because being unable to control your emotions like anger can cause an assassination. The first thing a parent must do is take initiative, get up, and make a difference by educating. It is up to you. The first step to make a difference is to educate your children by disciplining them and teaching them respect, consideration, non-violence, not to be jealous or envy and how to love, forgive and be safe. Educate them about guns, gun violence and gun control. Moreover, the second step to make a difference is educating the community and other parents. How? By creating flyers, posters and surveys to spread awareness. Also, by creating conferences about gun control for those who lack knowledge and explain that guns have to be out of reach for Reynoso 4 felons, children, and the mentally ill. Throughout the years there have been many incidents in which the victims are children; and as a parent, you would not want your child to be a victim of gun violence. Mentally ill patients have the highest risk for committing gun violence, and some are responsible for mass shootings that have occurred. Clarke and Martin mentioned that in January 1989, there was a school shooting in Stockton, California. Patrick Purdy killed five children and injured 32 other students at Cleveland Elementary School, before he committed suicide (31). According to Control vs. Self A Case against the Ideological Divide by James M. La Valle, a mentally ill student killed 31 people on Virginia Tech University in April 16 th , 2007, and then he killed himself. In 2012, James Egan Holmes killed 12 and injured 58 in a movie theater at Colorado. Finally, that same year on December 14, Adam Lanza killed his mother, 20 children and 6 adults at Newton Connecticut primary school. The worst thing about it all is that they all had obtained their guns legally, which means that the system of background checks is inefficient (La Valle 2). To make a change, make awareness and avoid the reach of guns on the mentally ill. Andrew Cuomo mentioned who have mental issues should not have could hurt themselves, they could hurt other in the article Illness, Mass Shootings, and the Politics of American by Jonathan Metzl and Kenneth MacLeish (240). This does not only put your children in danger, but it also gives them an example, and we do not want that example for your children, the ones who will be here in the future. Stop the example of violence, and start the example of peace so that safety can be achieved. One has to know that guns are not the problem, people are, and since people cannot be controlled then guns have to be controlled to have order and lack chaos and deaths. By providing gun control, there will be control between citizens. Analyze this story: Pedro has a gun; he is the Reynoso 5 predator. Juan is the prey and he thinks that having a gun to defend himself would make the predator scared; and as a consequence, the predator attack. But not every predator that feels threatened decides not to fight back. So if the predator decides to attack even when threatened and the prey decides to defend, there will be more possibilities for both Pedro and Juan to get injured drastically or killed. Instead of being a victim, there is going to be war. This is because Pedro and friends and families can get involve to defend them; then, it can escalate to the communities joining the battle. This will create a community where there is a culture of violence. Living in a war zone is not the ideal living experience: not safe. Knowledge is power and education is a necessity. The more you know, the more you can be safe. Ignorance is the problem and is not an option anymore because there is education. In addition, as a parent you have to know that you have plenty of influence and are a role model to your children. Start with your home, your family and your community. Then make it global. Living in unsafe communities is living hell in Earth, were bodies in the street would not be news anymore because it will be part of our daily lives, and an environment like this is not appropriate for parents to raise their children. No one wants to live in a place like Hades. Living in fear is not an option. Gun control prevents fear, violence, and grief, and provides safety. It provides a controlled environment in which parents will be thrilled for their children to be part of and grow in. Protection based on our selves is a death sentence; it will get out of control, which is the first aspect that prevents crime. This shows the importance of living in a safe environment. One day I will be a mother myself, and I would want my children to live their life in a trustworthy environment, free from threat and gun violence because for me their life matters. I want the best for my child and that is their safety and for them to live, which can be achieved by defending the right to live without threat. Clarke and Martin say: one is called to be a defender of life from Reynoso 6 natural birth to natural death, how can one ignore something that so easily ends a (Clarke and Martin 32)? Reynoso 7 Works Cited Beginning of an Era: The 1966 University of Texas Clock Tower  NBCNews.com. NBCUniversal News Group, 01 Aug. 2016. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. <http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/beginning-era-1966-university-texas-clock- tower-shooting-n620556>. Clarke, Kevin, and James Martin. History of Violence: Gun Control in Vantage Point: 1967-2013 (2016): 31-33. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. La Valle, James M. vs. A Case against the Ideological Justice Policy Journal 10.1 (2013): 1-26. Print. Meltzer, Jonathan. Carry for All: Heller and Our Nineteenth-Century Second The Yale Law Journal 123.1486 (2014): 1486-1530. Print. Metzl, Jonathan M., Md, PhD, and Keneeth T. MacLeish, PhD. Illness, Mass Shootings, and the Politics of American American Journal of Public Health 105. No. 2 (2015): 240-249. Print. Sterzer, Jason. Good, the Bad and the Journal of Legal Medicine 33.1 (2012): 171- 199. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. doi:10.1080/01947648.2012.657993