Running Head: THE GROWING THREAT OF CYBERCRIME 1 The Growing Threat of Cybercrime Danish Siddiqui University of South Florida THE GROWING THREAT OF CYBERCRIME 2 Abstract The introduction of the internet has enabled the globalization of the world reducing it into a small village. The introduction of computers and the internet provides a link among individuals living in different parts of the world. Researchers, scholars and also businesses have been connected using the internet. However, several significant challenges have come along with the web. Cybercrime has always been a major problem for Internet users including government agencies due to the vulnerability of the information stored. The growing threats of cybercrime have been attributed to the advancement of technology where the government finds it hard to combat the criminals from cybercrimes. The United States introduction of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act in 1984 has been the only law used to combat cybercrimes. The United States government has taken steps to sensitize the citizens on the effects of cybercrimes encouraging individuals experiencing the offenses to report the cases. The change in the dynamic of cybercrime has always introduced a new dimension in the cybercrime cases leading to the CFAA act continuously being reviewed by the Congress. The growing threat of cybercrimes is still posing the challenge to the US government even amid these steps taken. Lack of global cooperation and disparities in the inter-jurisdiction cases have been the original problems in the bid to combat cybercrime globally. THE GROWING THREAT OF CYBERCRIME 3 The Growing Threat of Cybercrime The introduction of computers and the internet was always deemed to help human being do their work faster and do multiple of things at the same time. Globalization has been significantly achieved through the use of the internet as the world has been reduced into a small village. The internet provided a lot of services where some useful materials can be stored and retrieved at the point of need anywhere hence sparing people with the struggle initially faced where people needed to carry materials wherever they travel. Advancement of science and technology has its positive part but also has its negative. Information stored on the internet or rather using the internet poses a threat from unauthorized users who can access your account hence leading to the lack of security using the internet. Cybercrimes are offenses that are committed via the World Wide Web also referred to as the internet. Cybercrime has been a concern not only to the government but also among scholars and policy advocates. Cybercrime is on an upward trajectory since the introduction of the internet. This paper presents a history of the growing threat of cybercrimes where we focus on the challenges and steps to combat the cases. With the advancement of technology, the passage of information using our Internet system becomes vulnerable to potential unauthorized users. There was an increasing case of cybercrimes, but the perpetrators were not charged as there was no law in place to combat this kind of crime. The United States introduction of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act in 1986 which was inspired by the released of the movie WarGames has faced difficulty in the implementation process. The computer crime policy was unclear between the distinction of computer trespass and felonious computer crime (Skibell, 2003). The US Congress has continuously strengthened the CFAA since 1984 by creating new crimes, lowering level of intent, ad subsequently raising the penalties for the perpetrators. CFAA was the only law the THE GROWING THREAT OF CYBERCRIME 4 government could use in dealing with cybercrime relates cases in the 1980s. Even though the Congress passed the 1984 CFAA, it had some challenges as some criticized it for being vague, narrow in scope, and over prosecuting. After an extensive study on computer crime, it led to the amendment of CFAA in 1986, where the scope was increased to include the following three crimes; Hacking, Computer fraud and trafficking of network passwords. With the advancement in technology, different dynamics to cybercrimes emerge, and the Congress had to introduce new changes to the laws to combat cybercrimes. Major changes took place in 1994 even though minor changes were observed in 1988, 1989, and 1990 (Skibell, 2003). Cybercrime has seen it advance from the local to the international level where terrorists are taking advantage of the situation. In 1996, Congress revised the CFAA to the current structure being used today. The amendments of 1996 have a wider scope, and also three offenses were added to cover international computer crimes. After 9/11 tragedy that befell the US, Congress passed USAPA which made it easy to charge computer crime and introduced cyber terrorism acts. There was also an increase in the amount to be paid from $1000 to $5000. According to Wall (2007), the most difficult task to do is the monitoring of cybercrimes by the police due to its complexity. There has been a continuous effort by the government to combat cybercrime both locally and internationally, but it always faces a challenge as the hackers seem to be on a higher level or using more recent technology than the government. The local police face challenges since the internet is being used globally, therefore, becoming more of a national issue. USAPA raised the charges for victims defiling CFAA felony provisions where first-time offenders would face a five to ten-year sentence and in the case of repeat the offense is raised to between ten to twenty years. THE GROWING THREAT OF CYBERCRIME 5 In the year 2002, cyber security enhancement act was passed and there was a universal agreement about the increase in growth of computer crimes whose solution is a criminal sanction. With cybercrime being an international issue there has been a problem with legal disparities in inter-jurisdiction cases. Wall (2007) presents legal disparities where theft of trade secret is a criminal offense in the United States, but the same offense is charged as civil in the United Kingdom. In 2011, there was a high profile CFAA that was drafted by the white house and the Department of Justice where serious issues were included in the CFAA where the prison sentence was further increased, and there was the introduction of RICO offenses (Meyer, 2016). The government has put all resources in the bid to end cybercrime where laws have been reviewed, and individuals sensitized on the cybercrime cases. According to Meyer (2016), critics have always questioned the method of using criminal law to stop the victims who are hard to find. This is because some of them could be outside the US and worse off some of the cybercriminals are usually sponsored by the foreign government a good example is when the Chinese military officers were identified to have committed the offense in 2014. Cybercrime has continued to be a challenge for most countries today. The police department has received low cases of cybercrime because they are not reported since victims have no confidence in the law enforcement agencies hence leading to the increased threats of cybercrimes. These crimes do not only affect the government, but individuals as well since hackers can use your details to change medical information about a patient and also gain access to their finance accounts. The major problem has been the ill- developed legal system serves and the measures to tame cybercrime may be obsolete (Tuluc, 2012; Meyer, 2016). THE GROWING THREAT OF CYBERCRIME 6 Conclusion There has been a deliberate move by the government to combat cybercrimes since the introduction of the internet. However as evident form the scholarly conversation, laws with harsh penalties are not adequate to combat cybercrimes. Although the laws act as a significant guide on how to handle cybercrimes, the problem seems to be advancing with the advancement of technology. I tend to agree more with Tuluc and Meyer in the conversation around the legal system measures to combat cybercrime. The laws need to be updated, and if possible harmonized across countries. In addition, the security agencies should keep pace with technological advancement. It is unrealistic to use old technology to fight an enemy using current and efficient technologies. Therefore from the above discussion is evident that the government has not fully combated the cybercrime issues. With the increase in the number of students taking courses in information technology and computer science the number of people venturing into the hacking industry has also increased, and this has posed a challenge both to the public and the government. Lack of global cooperation among the agencies proves to be the primary reasons as to why cybercrimes have proved to be unending in our world today. THE GROWING THREAT OF CYBERCRIME 7 References Skibell, R. (2003). Cybercrimes & misdemeanors: A reevaluation of the computer fraud and abuse act. Berkeley Technology Law Journal, 909-944. Wall, D. S. (2007). Policing cybercrimes: Situating the public police in networks of security within cyberspace. Police Practice and Research, 8(2), 183-205. Tuluc, A. M. (2012). Economic Processes Associated with The Cybercrime Industry. Economics, Management & Financial Markets, 7(2), 179-184. Mayer, J. (2016). Cybercrime Litigation. University of Pennsylvania Law Review, 164(6), 1453- 1507