Sydney Rosa Ms. Lay Final Draft Project 3 29 April 2017 Human Trafficking in Tampa Human trafficking is a progressively inclining industry that, contrary to popular belief, confined to acts that solely involve sex. children, and men are used as merchandise for prostitution, slavery, organs transplants, and Satanist rituals (Schinasi). Statistics from the International Labor Organization say that an estimated 2.4 million people are trafficked every year around the world. Human trafficking is modern day slavery, or in other words, people are exploited and they are forced to do things they want to do. Human trafficking also involves fraud and coercion for some form of labor (work or organ transplantation) or commercial sex act (Huffington Post). Victims of human trafficking limited to a specific type of person; they differ in age, race, and gender. Today, human trafficking has increased at an alarming rate and has affected millions of lives. There is a noticeable difference between the past and the present in the state of Florida, specifically the Tampa Bay area. Tampa Bay has become the second highest location for human trafficking crimes in the state of Florida, with Florida being top in the nation. We as Tampanians must take the initiative to improve upon the scourge of human trafficking. To be educated about this topic in the area we live, to specifically know how we are affected, and active measures directed towards its prevention are huge steps that can improve the society we live in. We all need to learn the signs of human trafficking in order to know whether someone is being trafficked. If blatant signs of human trafficking are exhibited, it is imperative that we do not fall prey to negligence and leave such heinous acts to a blind eye. Knowing about human trafficking and its signs is the first step to making a difference in the world we live in today. In the past, human trafficking was merely just another crime and no one thought much of it or thought to do anything about it. However, in 2000, before Bush took office, Congress passed a bill called the Trafficking Victims Protection Act, which allows for the action to be taken against traffickers both worldwide and within the nation. After Bush became president, 2001, his administration strengthened that act and started paying more attention to why it was put in place, to begin with. This was due to the fact that the number of people being trafficked was increasing rapidly and Bush wanted to do something about it. Human trafficking became one of top problems to try and solve (U.S. Laws on Trafficking in Persons). Bush wanted to do everything he could; therefore, he decided to sign the reauthorization act of 2005, which allowed for the protection of those being trafficked. Protection meaning the victims were not thrown into prison. Bush made sure the victims were under special protection such as safe houses or rehabilitation centers that gave counseling and allowed for the victims to get better and get back to the lives they have always wanted. Bush was so invested in this cause; he went to the first conference on human trafficking in the United States (Human Trafficking A New Form of Slavery). This conference was hosted in Tampa, Florida and there, people were educated and encouraged to help rescue women and children from modern day slavery. However, since we have gone through 2 presidents since Bush was in office, it seems like nothing is progressing. Remember, human trafficking always have to deal with sexual acts, it simply means the act of trading humans. Knowing why human trafficking affects more than those who are trafficked is extremely important. By knowing what kind of area you live in, and how safe it is will allow you to have a better life. More people knowing the signs is always a good start to demolishing this underground industry. Signs, such as malnutrition, extreme bruising, suicidal tendencies, inconsistencies in stories, and unable or too afraid to tell what really happened. Many victims are afraid to tell someone because their trafficker will hurt them more or even leave them for dead (Stoklosa). According to CBS News, cases of human trafficking in 2017 have gone up over 50 percent in the state of Florida since 2016. CBS also claims that Florida received nearly 2,000 calls and reports of human trafficking, which is also over 50 percent from the year before. About 75% of all human trafficking victims are females young and old. The men and boys that are trafficked are usually used for work labor, soldiers, or slaves, and not so much as sex workers (CBS/AP). As citizens of the city of Tampa, we should be extremely engaged in this topic and do everything we can do to make a change. The statistics of our city are scary and we should care about this more than anything! of 2013, it is estimated that Florida hosts 18,000 to 50,000 trafficked and smuggled (Winebrenner). Traffickers come to Tampa because they have found that it is a good spot to find victims and also to bring them in order to do their trafficking crimes. In order for us to live comfortably and not have to look over our shoulders when roaming around the community, we must do what we can to put an end to the trafficking industry. Because Tampa is a hotspot for human traffickers, the safest thing for us to do as a community is to look out for each other, recognize the signs, and spread the word. Once you realize that this problem affects us all, we must know what to do. Because more attention is being drawn to Tampa due to human trafficking, more people are focusing on legislation and training regarding the human trafficking issue in this area specifically These seminars are held doing things to raise awareness and do what they can to make a change. An increase in human trafficking statistics is one reason that awareness is starting to grow and spread. This impact of Tampa has influenced leaders of communities to start to act by increasing the number of documentaries shown, at colleges in the Tampa Bay area because the college student population is the perfect audience to teach this stuff to! College students the only individuals invited to go, anyone can go. As an easy way to learn more and get involved in the Anti-Human-Trafficking movement, attend one of these seminars. These seminars teach about the signs of human trafficking. Pay attention to the signs that are taught and always remember that human trafficking is present in Tampa, and it hurt to tell your friends about the signs and to look out for those friends to make sure they are not trapped in the human trafficking lifestyle. If you do see the signs present in life, ignore it and assume there is nothing you can do just because a citizen. If you notice any signs of human trafficking around your life, you can call the National Human Trafficking Resource Center (1-800-373- 7888). Another thing you can do is call the cops and report any suspicious activities. For example, for many years Tampa police have focused and targeted massage parlors as fronts for human trafficking. Females that work at massage parlors tend to stand in the back of the establishment wearing lingerie, which is clearly unprofessional (Hersey). Therefore, if you see anything like that, call it in immediately, because any second wasted is another victim pulled into the human trafficking system. If you really want to take action and make a change in your community, something you can do is come up with a proposal or law that you can present to your state or local representative. A senior at a high school in Florida went to his district senator and fought for the bill to be passed. Because of how serious the problem has become, especially in Florida, the Tampa Bay area more so than others, the senator agreed that the state of Florida needed this bill desperately (Cordner). The student also talked to her peers and teachers at her school about the idea before she had gone to Senator Steube. The high school student told Sascha Cordner of WLRN that the people she talked to never thought of human trafficking because they never knew it was an issue, or at least not a big enough issue to teach about. Because of this girl going to her state senator, schools in Florida are now required to teach students about the signs of human trafficking. This one girl made a difference by going to a government official. Imagine what we could do together if we just put our minds and heart to it. The Past versus the has definitely been a lot of change, however not necessarily for the better. Since the past couple centuries human trafficking has become a more consequential industry. Human trafficking is the second most impactful crime industry, right after the criminal drug cartel. Allowing more people to know about human trafficking and being able to notice the signs, will allow for more law enforcement to catch the criminals and rescue the victims of human trafficking. Now that you know what human trafficking is, why you should care about this issue, and what you can do about it, you can educate, engage, and encourage other to join the movement. Passing more bills, such as the one where students will learn about human trafficking in their schools, also brings the state of Florida, as well as other states, closer to ending an extreme criminal problem. The sooner the problem can be stopped, the better the world will be, one city or state at a time. So, start with Tampa! ONE person do everything but we ALL can do something together. Works Cited Caitlin Johnston, Times Staff WriterLinkView All Articles. Human Trafficking Issue Rises to the  Tampa Bay Times. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Apr. 2017. CBS/AP. Human Trafficking Cases Increase More than 50 Percent in  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 15 Jan. 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <http://www.cbsnews.com/news/human-trafficking-cases-increase-more-than-50- percent-in-florida/>. Cordner, Sascha. Bill Requiring Fla. Schools Teach About Human Trafficking Dangers Passes First Senate  WLRN. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://wlrn.org/post/bill- requiring-fla-schools-teach-about-human-trafficking-dangers-passes-first-senate-panel>. Hersey, Linda. Massage Parlor Investigated for Human  Tampa, FL Patch. Patch, 07 May 2013. Web. 29 Apr. 2017. Human Trafficking - A New Form of  National Archives and Records Administration. National Archives and Records Administration, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <https://georgewbush-whitehouse.archives.gov/infocus/traffic/>. Schinasi, David. Human Trafficking: Past, Present,  Linkedin. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/human-trafficking-past-present-future-david- schinasi>. U.S. Laws on Trafficking in  U.S. Department of State. U.S. Department of State, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <https://www.state.gov/j/tip/laws/>. Winebrenner, Cheyanne. Human Trafficking and Smuggling in Tampa Bay, Florida: Processes, Policies and  N.p., 2015. Web. 29 Apr. 2017.