Mendola 1 Vincent Mendola Prof. Penuliar Enc 1102 18 March 2017 The American Cancer Society Cancer is a terrible disease and a current issue that affects many Americans and their families each year. The American Cancer Society is an organization that is here to combat the disease. Their main mission is to lives, celebrate lives, and lead the fight for a world without The images chosen represent the organizations interest of fighting against cancer, saving lives, and celebrating lives by organizing fund-raising, conducting research, and creating a web of hopeful support to those who need it. As with any organization there is always an opposing side, and in this case the theory that the American Cancer Society pockets some of the fund-raising money due to it being the wealthiest non-profit organization. Although one thing is for certain and that cancer is slowly becoming preventable due to The American Cancer vast research and early detection. The American Cancer Society does a lot to support the fight against cancer; one way being through fundraising to provide for extensive research. The organization accumulates the fund-raising from a few different ways being through volunteering, donating, and participating in Relay for Life. According to the American Cancer Society, when participating in Relay for life events it is the American Cancer Society fund groundbreaking research, crucial patient care programs, and education and prevention (American Cancer). Relay for Life is an event where people of all ages and ethnicities gather and create teams with friends, neighbors, Mendola 2 and/or family and go out and do fund-raisers like going door to door or even a car wash and collect money to donate to the cause. On Relay day, every person who collected $100 or more gets to stay the night and participate in fun activities. Although people who raise over $100 get to still participate and raise money at the event and walk the tracks laps for fighting cancer. Image two is a good example of this event because it shows an ethos appeal by including the cancer survivors at the event to show that its credible by having them as supporters and showing people of all ages participating in the event. This image also shows pathos by the survivors giving an emotional feel to the audience along with the children and other participants at the candle lighting ceremony to honor passed loved ones who lost their fight to cancer. Image one also provides the appeals from above along with the ethos appeal that the lady has credibility towards the issue by her being a cancer survivor. Image two also provides a logos appeal that the organization is in fact leading the fight against cancer by providing the extensive research and funding that the ACS accomplishes while providing a pathos appeal due to the lady being a cancer survivor who feels blessed to be alive and to be celebrating more birthdays to come. With any hope of cure there must be excessive researching done to find ways to detect the cancer early on and how to prevent it from occurring in the first place which the two images provide support to. The American Cancer research has some of the most up to date cancer information and according to Dr. Jason Lee who is a radiation oncologist in the Cancer Treatment Center in Swansea, probably the best data we have from a public health (Forsythe). This is because brand new research is two years behind due to everything having to be extensively verified and proven true but new breakthroughs are occurring every day and leading the efforts closer to a world without cancer. In Cancer research, there are three main points that are stated by Dr. Lee, is detection. Two is screening Mendola 3 programs. Three is essentially treatment (Forsythe). The American Cancer Society explains these steps well and provide many ways to prevent the disease by what a person may consume in their body and other factors along with how to detect it early on and to always visit the doctor periodically to make sure individuals are in good health. The American Cancer Society also posts many of their research findings on articles posted on their website for the public to utilize for information and to always be updated on new findings. Image one helps provide a mixed ethos and logos appeal that shows the credibility and statistic of the American Cancer Society being that they are the official sponsor of birthdays and are the leader in cancer from deadly to Image two provides the context of Relay for Life being a cause and effect scenario; the Relay for Life event being the cause, and the effect being all the money raised which goes into the research to help battle cancer which provides the audience with an ethos appeal showing their credibility to the issue at hand. The American Cancer website uses a kairos appeal located on the top right all over the webpage in all caps reading to help fund their research through online donations by giving a bold clear statement to everyone who visits their website. There are many factors in battling out the odds and beating cancer, one of the biggest being overall hope and support. Image one provides a pathos appeal showing the emotion on the face and her smirk of hope with her hand held over her heart. Now on image two it provides the many people that are participating in this Relay for Life event to support all of those suffering with the disease of cancer. This gives a pathos appeal of the survivors participating and supporting others which are going through what been through and shows the support of all ages, even littles kids which are seen marching with a sign that says, These types of images provide the audience with the idea that with anyone and Mendola 4 support a person can beneficially effect someone going through the struggle of battling cancer. The American Cancer Society provides some of the best support options for those struggling whether it be from anxiety, trouble coping, or whatever problem the patient is facing and states, programs and services to help people with cancer and their loved ones understand cancer, manage their lives through treatment and recovery, and find the emotional support they need. And best of all, our help is (American Cancer). This quote addresses all the options and paths a person battling cancer can take for the best support for them and their family through the hard and sad struggle of dealing with the disastrous disease that is cancer. The American Cancer Society does a lot to contribute to the world and those affected by cancer but many times questions are asked if doing everything they can do and if there is anything sneaky going on behind the scenes. In the article Fraud of the American Cancer Society the author Christina Sarich, a humanitarian and freelance writer explains that, Cancer Society has a cure rate of about 2.1% and receives more money in contributions in 10 minutes than the Independent Cancer Research Foundation receives in a whole year. ICRF arguably has cure rates closer to and explains that about 26% of the budget goes towards medical research and (Sarich). She believes that the American Cancer Society is taking the rest of the money to provide workers with large salaries and that they should have the non-profit title stripped from their name. This is a big leap to accuse the American Cancer Society of being corrupt and there are certain possible explanations such as all research that is released is two years old like stated earlier on due to results having to be verified. Whether whichever side to believe, it is sure that the organization is still contributing to helping the world find a cure and deal with the current issue easier. The American Cancer Mendola 5 Society is greatly described by these two images and their overall goal and mission to lives, celebrate lives, and lead the fight for a world without These images provided a look at what the organization has to offer and the types of rhetorical appeals they use to attract and promote their cause. Due to this organizations effort of organization and fund-raising, extensive researching and programs, and the support they provide cancer will soon enough from deadly to Works Cited American Cancer Society. American Cancer Society, Inc. 2017. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Forsythe, Jaime. people are dying from cancer. Belleville News-Democrat. Metro-East News, Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Sarich, Christina. The Fraud of the American Cancer Society  Natural Society. 6 Feb. 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Mendola 6 Image 1: Image 2: