Barnett 1 Payton Barnett 29 March 2017 Sarah Basil Composition II University of South Florida Community and Deforestation Students at the University of South Florida use paper in classes, as flyers, for writing down contact information such as phone numbers, and for trashcan basketball, but how much of this paper is recycled? According to the Campus Recycling Program and Energy Conservation page of website, has recycled over 7,100 tons of 7,100 tons may seem like a lot, but in 2016 the annual amount of paper used in the US was 9.125 billion tons, and the total number of trees cut down for that paper was 4 billion (Paper Use Statistics). Trees are incredibly important for not only our environment or wild homes, but they provide the oxygen that we breathe. The Earth Policy Institute Indicators page mentions that forests currently cover 31% of the land surface, and the World Wildlife overview on deforestation states that the equivalent to 48 football fields of forest are lost every minute. Students at the University of South Florida can help to combat deforestation by being educated, being engaged, and being empowered on the topic f deforestation. Deforestation should matter to the USF community, both students and staff, because if we can increase the tons of recycled paper it would help lessen the effects of deforestation. Deforestation is defined as the action of clearing a wide area of trees, like a forest. Forests provide important products such as timber and paper, but they also supply essential services, for example they filter water, protect soil, regulate climate, and provide habitats for Barnett 2 countless animal species and space for recreation (Earth Policy Institute indicators). When deforestation was at its highest in the 1990s, the world lost an average of 16 millions hectares (1 hectare = 2.4 acres) each year which is roughly the size of the state Michigan. But these global rates of deforestation from Earth Policy Institute do not fully capture the damage done to the forests. There are many means that compromise the health of remaining forests such as selective logging, road construction, and climate change. With each year that passes the world has less forest area, and the forests that remain are of a lower quality. Replacing forests that have been naturally grown with trees of an exotic species reduces biodiversity greatly. But the amount of planted forests has been rising from an expansion of 3.7 million hectares annually in the 1990s to 4.9 million hectares annually in the 2000s. Today, planted forests count for nearly 7% of total forests (Earth Policy Institute indicators). In order to reduce forests being cut down, paper needs to be recycled and not thrown into the trash. The percent of landfill solid waste compromised of paper is 16% according to Paper Use Statistics. If that number were reduced by half, there would be less waste in landfills and more paper available for use. Deforestation has a negative impact on the environment, and the most dramatic impact it has is the loss of habitat for millions of species. 80% of land animals and plants live in forests and cannot survive the deforestation that destroys their homes (National Geographic). Trees are an important factor in climate change due to the fact that they absorb the greenhouse gases that fuel global warming, less trees and fewer forests means less greenhouse gases getting absorbed and this would increase the speed and severity of global warming (National Geographic). If people reduce the amount of paper they use, and also recycle all of the paper they use that can be recycled, there would be less of a need to cut down trees. Wood would still be used for architecture and furniture, but Paper Use Statistics states that 42% of wood harvested Barnett 3 goes to paper production, and halving that number would be a dramatic and much needed impact on deforestation. Even just reducing that number by 1 or 2% would be a change for the better. The smallest difference is still a difference. Deforestation is relatable to the USF community in a variety of ways. There are recycling bins all over campus in order to persuade students to recycle paper and plastic rather than throw it away where it will end up in a landfill. The USF Guide to Recycling page mentions this as well, Recycle Anyway? Well, why condemn waste to a landfill when it can be used to make a new Later on the Recycling Frequently Asked Questions page, another explanation for recycling at USF is found, bound to run out of room for all that Much of what is currently dumped in landfills are things that could be repurposed but have been thrown away, taking up space that we cannot afford to give. By taking items that could be used to make new products, like paper and plastic, we leave more space for items that cannot be easily repurposed, or may not be able to be repurposed at all. There are countless organizations and agencies against deforestation that could be donated to or joined, as well as several places on campus to take your recyclable goods. Some of those organizations include The Rainforest Action Network, whose mission includes for the forests, their inhabitants and the natural systems that sustain through education, organization, and non-violent direct action (Rainforest Action Network mission and values). The World Wildlife Fund has been protecting the future of nature for over 50 years, and Nature and Culture International have helped to protect over 13 million acres of threatened ecosystems in Latin America. Save The Redwoods goal is to and restore redwood forests and connect people with their peace and beauty so these wonders of the natural world As for being active closer to campus, the USF Guide to Recycling Frequently Asked Questions Barnett 4 answers what can be recycled on campus and where recycling facilities are located. There is a main recycling located on Sycamore, next to the intramural fields, and currently plastics 1 and 2, glass, aluminum, paper, cardboard, and newspaper are recyclable. There are also recycling bins for paper in most of the academic buildings, though there are limited recycling bins for plastic and aluminum in dorms and other buildings around campus. The page also mentions to stay tuned, because an expanded recycling program is in the works. Education on deforestation would help the University of South Florida community to understand the gravity of this issue, engagement in organizations make a difference, and feeling empowered to make a change can help reduce deforestation. The USF community is already recycling, as shown by the Campus Recycling Program and Energy Conservation page on their website with lists of what the university can and does currently recycle, as well as with some statistics on how many tons of paper USF has recycled. This is a starting point, if more of the University of South community gets involved and passionate about trees and deforestation there is no doubt the recycling statistics would go up and much less paper would be used. The effects of deforestation would be lessened, no matter how small or how great, if the University of South Florida community is educated, engaged, and empowered on the subject. Barnett 5 Works Cited Campus Recycling Program and Energy Conservation. University of South Florida, 2017. http://www.usf.edu/administrative-services/facilities/leed-sustainability/campus- recycling-energy-conservation.aspx National Geographic Partners, LLC, 2017. http://www.nationalgeographic.com/environment/global-warming/deforestation/ Eco-Economy Indicators. Rutgers University, 2012. Nature and Culture International. Nature and Culture International 2014. Web. https://natureandculture.org/ Paper Use Statistics. Statistic Brain Research Institute, 2016. Web. http://www.statisticbrain.com/paper-use-statistics/ Rainforest Action Network. Rainforest Action Network, 2017.Web. https://www.ran.org/ Save The Redwoods League. Save The Redwoods League, 2017. Web. https://www.savetheredwoods.org/ World Wildlife Fund. World Wildlife Fund, 2017.Web. http://www.worldwildlife.org/ Your Guide to Recycling at USF. University of South Florida, 2017. Web.