Allan 1 Ashley Allan Join the Movement to Raise Minimum Wage! Citizens of the United States are living in a time where CEOs of major companies are averaging salaries of near 13.8 million dollars annually, but many of their workers even earning enough money to be above the national poverty line (Chamberlain, 2015). The organization Fight for $15 protests companies and employers that pay their workers unfair wages near the federal minimum wage of $7.25. This movement is not just for fast food workers either, Fight for $15 also supports home health aides, child care teachers, airport workers, professors, and retail employees (Fight). A raise in minimum wage would be beneficial to workers, employers, and even the government. If you have ever felt that your job pays unfair wages and that you are worth more, then join the Fight for $15 movement by arranging a protest with co-workers who feel the same. A common argument against Fight for 15 is that such a high raise in the minimum wage would lead to a massive number of job losses because of high labor costs. The former CEO of Edward Rensi, said guarantee you if a $15 minimum wage goes across the country going to see a job loss like you Rensi believes that this wage increase would decrease the number of jobs because companies would begin switching to robots that would cost less in the long run (McFarland, 2016). Though it is often believed that higher wages will lead to more job losses, Rebecca Riley and Chiara Rosazza Bondibene, two researchers from the National Institute of Economic and Social Research and Centre for Macroeconomics, UK, argue otherwise. Using a study done on new National Minimum Wage system, NMW, they argue that a productivity and efficiency will actually Allan 2 increase due to higher minimum wages. Due to the current labor costs being higher than before the NMW, employers take more precaution to better train employers and improve the worker efficiency in the quickest time possible. The researchers also predicted that workers people doing receiving low wages would exude less effort into their work than people doing the same work for more money (Riley and Bondibene, 2016). This shows that there are benefits with a minimum wage increase not only for workers, but for the companies that employ these people as well. With increasing productivity and decreasing turnover rates due to less inclination for leaving a job due to low wages, both sides can benefit. Many people have joined the Fight for 15 movement because the low wages of their jobs are affecting not only them, but the families they are trying to support. The federal minimum wage is low enough that the United States Census Bureau reported that in 2015, 19.4 million workers made at least only half of the average income of the poverty line (Proctor et al., 2016). Chances are, you know someone that would benefit by raising the minimum wage. David Cooper, an economic analyst, states that an average of one in four Americans would be directly or indirectly affected by the wage change, which is about 35.1 million people. also estimated that one-third of single parents would also be significantly affected by this (Cooper, 2015). This fight for a raise in the minimum wage is not only important to the workers, vital to their families so that they have a better budget for housing, food, or education. Not only would a higher minimum wage have ways of benefiting both employers and employees, but it was also be advantageous for the federal and state governments. Due to being so far under the poverty line, no surprise that many minimum wage workers need some form of federal aid to be able to fully support themselves and their families. 52.6% of workers that are Allan 3 making between $7.42 and $9.91 per hour rely on some form of public assistance. David Cooper states that for every dollar raise a person in this wage group receives, the likelihood of them receiving aid decrease by 3.1%, which would ultimately decrease government spending on these workers by $5.2 billion dollars. With an increased minimum wage to even $12, Cooper calculates that the public assistance spending would decrease by $17 billion annually (Cooper, 2016). The Fight for $15 organization is not just working to solve the source of poverty for only one job or one type of person. They fight for all Americans struggling due to the low wages by protesting their employers and companies. To do this, the first step is inform friends, family, and co-workers and set a time before the strike, then make signs, write a strike letter, and alert the local news know on the day of the strike, and finally go back to work confidently the day after the strike. For more information, support, and a place to sign up on fightfor15.org. Millions of Americans are suffering while they try to survive and live in poverty daily, and the Fight for 15 organization has already helped 17 million people in the United States receive raises (Fight). Though several states, cities, and corporations have continuously denied the fight for a living wage because it would cut into their profits, but Fight for 15 will not give up. We should all be fighting for our fellow Americans, and joining this fight for the right for all to survive. Allan 4 References Chamberlain, A. (2015). CEO to Worker Pay Ratios: Average CEO Earns 204 Times Median Worker Pay. Glassdoor Economic Research. https://www.glassdoor.com/research/ceo-pay- ratio/ Cooper, D. (2016). Balancing Paychecks and Public Assistance. Economic Policy Institute, 418. http://www.epi.org/publication/wages-and-transfers/ Cooper, D. (2015). Raising the Minimum Wage to $12 by 2020 Would Lift Wages for 35 Million American Workers. Economic Policy Institute, 405. http://www.epi.org/publication/raising-the-minimum-wage-to-12-by-2020-would-lift- wages-for-35-million-american-workers/ Fight for $15. (2017). Fight for $15. http://fightfor15.org/ McFarland, M. (2016). CEO says raising the minimum wage will help robots take jobs. The Washington Post. https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/innovations/wp/2016/05/25/ex-mcdonalds-ceo- Proctor, B.D., Semega, J.L., and Kollar, M.A. (2016). Income and Poverty in the United States: 2015. United States Census Bureau, P60-256(RV). https://www.census.gov/content/dam/Census/library/publications/2016/demo/p60-256.pdf Riley, R., & Bondibene, C.R. (2016). Raising the standard: Minimum wages and firm productivity. Labour economics, 44, 27-50 http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S09275371163034 87?np=y