Alyssa Rader ENC 1102 Ms. Lay 4/16/17 Marijuana for Student Athletes Athletes do a lot in their day-to-day college lives, except for ending their long weeks with a college student weekend because of their chances for a random NCAA drug test. In time, it is well known that drugs and social aspects of entering college are on a rise, especially marijuana use (Roditis 179). Despite the efforts of athletes wanting to live the college experience that their classmates do, the NCAA has strict policies on what athletes can consume. There are many reasons why marijuana has been looked down upon, but more importantly, there are numerous ways in which it has and can continue to help people everyday. For this reason, every person within the United States should care, especially coaches in the NCAA. These reasons are important for the successes of college student athletes and the universities they represent. The benefits to a student athlete using marijuana outweigh the costs. With the help of NCAA college coaches appealing the rules, the agents and side effects of marijuana can help the college student athletes succeed in their careers of all types. The student life is a very busy and stressful one, and it is well known that drugs and partying is a part of almost every college experience. Despite the efforts of athletes wanting to live the college experience that their classmates do by using substances like marijuana, the NCAA has strict policies on what athletes can consume, especially when it comes to street drugs, like marijuana. Even though it is worse in their line of work to do steroids, it is marijuana is monitored just as any other hard-core drug. Athletes do a lot in their day-to-day college life, except without a college student weekend because of the NCAA drug testing. Because of this, it is important that the athletes feel better through this by the coaches of the NCAA speaking up. Athletes need not just to enjoy their college lives, but also to improve their performance. It is proven that marijuana can calm and stimulate the mind and body for the people who use or consume it (Depression Health). With that being said, marijuana can and should be used to simulate the anxiety and stress that the college student athlete faces. while college student-athletes do struggle with depression and anxiety, the data indicate they are less likely than their non-athlete peers to report issues with (Rpowell). This indicates a struggle for athletes to get help when they might need it, unlike the normal college students. As a result, it is important to consider how to help prevent the anxiety and stress of student athletes that require help. The way in which that can happen is allowing marijuana to take on its calming remedies to help student athletes with their everyday stressors. Once that is done, there will be a visible change in all aspects of the lives of these student athletes, from their school work to their performance in their given sport. They feel as if whole world is not sitting on their as many college student athletes feel when during their four years. It is important for student athletes to receive the help and side effects of marijuana by coaches starting the movement for the legalization of marijuana within the NCAA for their well being and performance. Along with the student athletes associated with the NCAA, the coaches should be invested into making marijuana a legal substance within the organization. Coaches have as much of a part in this cause as student athletes. Coaches also require self-preservation and safety of the mind and body. It will overall help their performance on the line of sport through the long time saying, well, play Many coaches agree that marijuana can be a useful tool, including Adam Silver, the head commissioner for the NBA and Steve Kerr, the head coach of the Golden State Warriors, quoted, an NFL player, in particular, and you got lot of pain, I think any question that pot is better for your body than  (Haynes). These are two men within the ranks of professional basketball, but they exemplify the goals and dreams of all student athletes trying to play professionally after their four-year college career. Along with them, non current athletes, I just gotta be real, you know, been a couple games where I smoked before games and had great  is quoted from an ex- NBA player who is on the side that marijuana is a benefit for athletes and their performance Ex-NBA Player Stephen Jackson Says He Smoked Weed before ). While the rules stay strict on drug use in all leagues, both professional and college, there are movements happening to unblock those rules for the athletes to be more comfortable while doing what brings them, their coaches, and millions of fans around the world joy. There are no step-by-step instructions on how to take action in this matter. One important step is spreading the word and getting the research out that the benefits of marijuana can do more good than harm for the college student athletes across the United States. Once the NCAA keeps getting their attention turned to these facts, it is essential to have numbers behind the statements to help persuade the NCAA. These persuasions can come through petitions and other forms of appeal. All appeals in the NCAA come from college coaches and these coaches have the power to persuade and change the rules and regulations of the NCAA through these appeals. The attention needs to be turned towards what can help their student athletes succeed, and their way of succeeding in this in time is through the use of marijuana. Through the pain and stress relieving effects of marijuana, college student athletes can better succeed in their careers in their school, everyday life and their athletic performance. This movement can move forward by the help of the coaches within the NCAA, as they are the one who can affect the policy the most through appeals. In a time where the NCAA is trying to get the most out of student athletes and colleges, it is important to take care of the student athletes. These athletes need to be taken care of mentally and physically, and the side effects of marijuana can help make that possible. Works Cited Ex-NBA Player Stephen Jackson Says He Smoked Weed before  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 31 Jan. 2017. Web. 03 May 2017. Depression Health. How Marijuana Helps Relieve Stress and  Leaf Science. N.p., 18 Mar. 2016. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Haynes, Chris. Steve Kerr Says He Used Marijuana for Back Pain, Hopes Leagues Soften  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 04 Dec. 2016. Web. 12 Apr. 2017 Roditis, Maria L. and Bonnie Halpern-Felsher. Perceptions of Risks and Benefits of Conventional Cigarettes, E-Cigarettes, and Marijuana: A Qualitative  Journal of Adolescent Health, no. 2, 2015, p. 179. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jadohealth.2015.04.002. Rpowell. Mind, Body and Sport: Depression and Anxiety Prevalence in Student-  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 10 Nov. 2014. Web. 12 Apr. 2017.