Smith 1 Taylor Smith Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102 3 May 2017 Soccer Balls Benefit Princesses and Barbie Dolls A study conducted by Brett Carter found 79% of young self-esteem decreased after playing with Barbie dolls (Carter 6). Barbie dolls and Disney princesses have unrealistically thin body ideals and have been under criticism in recent years. These unpractical and unhealthy body types have been noted for strongly influencing young girls, which have led to eating disorders. Mattel, manufacturer, has been producing dolls since 1962, and on average, the body shape would come about to be a woman weighing in at 116 pounds, whereas the average United States woman is weighing in about 140 pounds (Coren 3). United States National Soccer team is another great influence on young girls as multiple of the players actively speak out for a healthy body image. The U.S. National Soccer league has the potential to influence Disney and Mattel in order to convince the two brands how crucial it is on young girls to empower themselves opposed to tearing them down with unattainable ideals the companies, and society have placed by speaking to younger girls in classrooms. Barbie has been noted for its unattainable slim body size for decades and researchers have noted the mental impact it places on youth. Ruth Handler, the owner of Barbie originally said Barbie should be one girls can look up to and relate yet with the way the company has carried itself for so long, with excessively thin, small footed, narrow limbed dolls is not relatable to six-year-old girl (Handler 1). Prichard, a psychologist, watched 100 four to nine-year-old girls play with both an original Barbie and another toy and 31% of the girls were Smith 2 found to talk down about themselves when asked if they believed they could relate to either toy (Prichard 2-3). Many were noted for calling themselves and (Prichard 3). This study only emphasizes the negative impact the company has on a mental health. Ivanka, a mental psychologist has been studying the long term effects of playing with Barbie dolls and mentions a correlation between the dolls and body dissatisfaction, as well as other researchers (Prichard, Rice, Slater 147). As Barbie has made some changes to their style of dolls, Mattel continues to release the unrealistic dolls more frequently than the Fashionista style dolls released in 2015. line was to promote more different body styles than the traditional slim, tall female. The line now carries curvy, tall, and petite to attract a broader consumer range. Disney has been issuing thin princesses since 1938 when Snow White stepped out and had an extremely thin, womanly figure at the shocking age of 14. The Disney company has continued to produce many of appalling thin princesses that girls are supposed to idolize since, solely encouraging an unreasonable body shape. Since the original eight princesses premiered un theaters, parents began commenting on the bust-waist-hip ratio the princess carry and how it should be changed as it has been observed that these body morals have been carrying a heavy weight on the young mind, even today. Gardner wrote an article on how to achieve a princess mocking the way Disney producers have continuously designed princesses with large heads, slender neck and feet, perky breasts, and exceedingly thin waistlines. As well as for Barbie, things are slightly looking up as Disney recently released a slightly more realistic princess, Moana, in 2016. This new princess has packed Disney stores and amusement parks which is seeming to be for the better as parents have applauded the style of Smith 3 body Moana possess. One parent even stated, love that Disney is trying more and more to get away from that stereotypical Barbie doll, blond hair, blue eyed (princess). She is Polynesian and beautiful and she will be a princess a lot of girls will look up (Cutler 4). Which allows for Disney to see just because the princesses are veering away from the stereotyped princess, does not mean any negative repercussions are to come about with the new princess; such as less consumer demand for products promoting Moana. As society, and body images are ever-changing, it is difficult for girls to find the beauty within themselves that pair up with the image society has placed on them. With influential brands that are aimed for young kids, like Barbie and Disney, it is easy to relate unrealistic body types with what young girls believe they should look like. The women of the United State Soccer League are endlessly encouraging other team players to eat well and exercise, as one teammate should. The soccer league would surely get involved with this project as they are an organization whose mission is to foster the physical, mental and emotional growth and development of youth through the sport of soccer at all levels of age and (USWSL 1). These mission statement drives home their potential willingness to engage in the serious topic at hand as the main task they must complete is to educate young girls of healthy eating and lifestyle patterns, the mission statement of the USWSL holds the women accountable to helping better the body-image talk, if they are able to. If this body empowerment were used on young girls, then it can be hoped that the girls would understand that eating well and eating minimal to obtain a body are two very different aspects of life. The soccer team should care about the subject at hand, as they were once young girls themselves and can understand the pressures young girls today face. The Smith 4 women on the team have daughters of their own and can see the hardships they ensure day to day. The current team members of the United State Soccer League have been a critical advocate for healthy eating and lifestyle changes for many years. The women ages range from 23 to 39, allowing for an expansive age gap between the players (Vecsey 5). In addition, these women have been role models to younger girls, as a seven-year-old girl, Alana noted on one of the player how she is by all the players on the for the admiration the women have for they game they play and the love they provoke in youth (Serby). Young girls can be influenced vastly in both a positive and negative way, and the women on the soccer team will be able to recognize this and benefit both the girls and themselves. In order to involve the USWSL with Disney and Mattel, that the United State Soccer League would be able to follow their busy schedule as they play other teams across the country, and while they are other cities and countries, they would speak to classroom and clubs on the difference between healthy eating and eating disorders. This would positively impact both the children and the women of the team, as the students would see role models instructing them that Barbie and the princesses, such Belle, Ariel and Jasmine are fiction, yet their health is a reality and each should be treated as such. As for the soccer team, the women will benefit through a widening fan base and a chance to influence youth. In addition, the women of the National League will have the opportunity experience a multitude of schooling system throughout the nation and world. As Barbie and Disney are targeting young kids, especially to have a body type that is both unachievable and extremely unhealthily. Multiple studies have shown an increase in body dissatisfaction when watching a Disney television show and/ or playing with an original Smith 5 Barbie doll. This issue has only increased over the years and unless action is taken, will continue in the future. As this is a global worry, a global stance will better the issue. The United States National Soccer League will travel the nation and globe while on their soccer tour in order to not interfere with the soccer games and impact young girls of today. This tour will take place a multitude of schools and young girls clubs to encourage healthy eating and discourage the common belief that Disney princesses bodies are natural and should be the way all girls look. Smith 6 Works Cited http://www.newsmax.com/US/average-weight-man-woman-obese/2015/06/15/id/650546/ Carter, Brett; Crighton, Gabrielle; Pidgeon, Aileen; Stapleton, Peta. Esteem and Body Image in The Humanistic Physcolosgist. American Phycological Association. 9 Feb. 2017, pp.1- 17. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=f4fc204e-70ed-4cc8-a175 ce2201fec5a2%40sessionmgr4008&vid=2&hid=4111. Accessed 09 April, 2017. Coren, Average Weight of Woman Today Same as Men in News Max. 15 June 2015. http://www.newsmax.com/US/average-weight-man-woman- obese/2015/06/15/id/650546/. Accessed 19 April 2017. Prichard, Ivanka; Rice, Karlie; Slater, Amy; Tiggeman, Marika. to Barbie- Effects on Young Girls Body School of Psychology. Elsevier. 30 Sept. 2016, pp. 142-149. http://ac.elscdn.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/S1740144516300730/1-s2.0 Accessed 10 April, 2017. Smith 7 Knafo, Hannah. Development of Body The New School Psychology Bulletin, vol. 13. 01 Jan. 2016. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=4105ad27-9eb2-4be5 914b-dee910c2151b%40sessionmgr4008&vid=10&hid=4111. Accessed 10 April, 2017. Serby, Steve. World Title, and a Team For Young Women to Idolize and NewYork Posts. http://nypost.com/2015/07/10/one-world-titleerrk-and-a-team-for-young-women to-idolize-and-love/. Accessed 20 April, 2017. Vecsey, Laura. Annouces Soccer Fox Sports. http://www.foxsports.com/soccer/story/united-states-womens-national-team-womens world-cup-roster-23-players-annoucement-041415. Accessed 19 April 2017.