Belmore !1 Erin Belmore Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.078 3 May 2017 Stem Cells Wear the Crown Stem cells are royalty of the science and technology industry. The controversy over whether or not stem cells should be funded for research and clinical trials is a moral and ongoing battle. Stem cells should be supported and further researched in order to improve medical treatments. The sorority Zeta Tau Alpha should also support the use and research of stem cells. Stem Cells can positively impact the world and have an immediate impact on all that are sick or suffering. It take long to show your support and get stem cells mandated with research and clinical trials and ultimately put the crown on the king of medicine. The sorority Zeta Tau Alpha should work together with organizations supporting stem cell research to improve and innovate the medical world to new and influential ways. Stem cells are classified as cells that have the potential to develop into many different cell types in the body by the National Institute of Health (Bethesda 1). These cells come from many different places, the main two are embryonic stem cells and somatic stem cells. As it may sound, embryonic stem cells come from a human embryo. These are created artificially in the lab for the sole purpose of being a stem cell through in vitro fertilization. The somatic stem cells can also be called adult stem cells. These come primarily from donated adult tissue cells (Bethesda 3). Stem cells have the ability to become any cell in the whole body that they are programmed and grown to be, this can have a huge effect on the medical world and their treatment for their patients. Belmore !2 Stem cells can not only help with treatment for life threatening diseases, they can help with day to day problems that occur from common wear-and-tear. (Rao 4) However for them to fully know stem cells full potential and abilities scientists must be allowed to research and do clinical studies on stem cells. Zeta Tau Alpha a sorority at the University of South Florida and many other Universities around the United States. It has many members and a direct impact on the community all around. Zeta Tau Alpha has a main philanthropy of that of breast cancer awareness and education. (Zeta Tau Alpha Foundation 1). Zeta Tau Alpha does so much for the benefit of supporting breast cancer and trying to improve the awareness to others. This educates the population getting the knowledge out there to benefit the community. Zeta Tau Alpha has a trademark that doubles as their theme for everything that they do, (Zeta Tau Alpha Foundation 2). Think Pink is a way to get their community involved with their philanthropy and understand the how anyone could be subjected to breast cancer, and that all women should be regularly checked to maintain their health. This is helpful for the community to know about something that is so relevant as breast cancer and be a reminder and influence on self and medical examinations and other things relating to the disease. Zeta Tau Alpha has a symbol of a crown, this helps those that they encourage to feel like they are important and they are strong and mighty. The crown symbolizes that with the help of the sorority Zeta Tau Alpha those that are sick are stronger than ever and can do anything they put their mind to. (Zeta Tau Alpha Symbol) If there was a symbiosis relationship between the sorority Zeta Tau Alpha and stem cell research and funding, both would have a beneficial outcome. Both Zeta Tau Alpha and stem cell research have an interest in people in their community, particularly sick people. With the interest Belmore !3 of sick and the suffering, both want to improve peoples lives, maintain health, and eliminate so many uncalled for deaths do to medial circumstances. Zeta Tau Alpha could support and promote Stem Cell research by holding events, or having get together that support the cause. When all those people get together to promote one thing it has a great effect on society viewing it. It tends to be passed off as a great idea regardless of if it is or not, luckily Stem cell research is a great cause and will get many people to support from events held by Zeta Tau Alpha. Zeta Tau Alpha would benefit from stem cells as they would be able to help those that have breast cancer already, this could be a treatment plan rather than having to go directly to a mastectomy or radiation. This would allow the community that suffers from breast cancer to have more options and know more about the disease that they have. These additional options would enable the patients to a better and happier treatment, this would help out the sororities cause and allow the people they are trying to benefit have a happier healthier life. The relationship would help stem cell research as all the locations that provide Zeta Tau Alpha as a sorority would increase the awareness and increase the support to the research for stem cells. The more support that is being displayed the more funding that they would receive therefore resulting in better clinical trials and more advances made. When looking back to the symbol of the sororities crown, this could also do well with the stem cells. They are the new ruler over medical advances and treatments, allowing those that are affected to feel powerful once again. Stem cell research should be funded for the future generations health. It is not difficult or time consuming to show your support and enable the funding of stem cell research. Go to stemforlife.org and scroll all the way down to the bottom. Then click on either or (Stem for a life). These options will both cause an impact on the medical world that we Belmore !4 know today and have a positive reaction for the future. These steps are quick and easy to follow, and the sooner that you engage yourself with the cause the sooner it could help save someone you love. The sooner the research develops and becomes advanced enough the faster it can get to Following it will be implemented into the real medical world where it can be effective on people that are suffering from many diseases. This may seem like its a long process and really do much help, but the sooner it begins the sooner it will be able to help and save patients lives. Cancer never comes when expected, the sooner better treatments are introduced into the medical world the more it will help everyone, possibly even someone that is close. It may not seem like this is very time sensitive, but the fate of a young child may be greatly affected by the choices that you make today. wait and just act now, do your part. The Sorority Zeta Tau Alpha should work together with organizations that support stem cells research to innovate the medical world and advance the ways that treatments are administered to the patients. Stem cells should be funded and supported in order to advance the research that is put in to finding cures and treatments for patients with diseases that they are generally left alone or with little hope for. The sorority Zeta Tau Alpha promotes awareness and educations towards primarily breast cancer. They want to educate the public to keep them aware of the chances and risks that can be cause to them. Adding stem cells to Zeta Tau philanthropy outreach with the large sorority that has chapters all over the country will increase the support and awareness for the potential stem cells hold. They have unbelievable potential but can not be made into anything with out the proper support, funding, and research abilities that could be put into action with the partnership and support of Zeta Tau Alpha. Just by going to the Belmore !5 web cite www.stemforlife.org to donate or show your support and help promote awareness to those around you. Work Cited: Bethesda, MD: National Institutes of Health, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 2016 stemcells.nih.gov/info/basics/1.htm. Accessed 21 April 2017 Okka, Berrin. Ethical Conflicts in Stem Cell Research and  Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences 176 (2015): 1071-077. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Zeta Tau Alpha Foundation. https://www.zetataualpha.org/cms400min/ Foundation/FoundationContent.aspx?id=3253. Accessed 21 April 2017. Rao, Mahendra. National Institutes of Health Center for Regenerative Medicine: Putting Science into  Stem Cells and Development 22.S1 (2013): 4-7. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Stem For Life a CURA Foundation. http://www.stemforlife.org. Accessed 21 April 2017.