Vargas 1 Karina Vargas Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.909 3 May 2017 How Much Safety Is Too Much? Music and dancing are the recipes for fun, right? But how much safety really goes into having fun? Is there a more effective way and can it be improved? Last year, at a festival by the name of Sunset Music Festival (SMF), ended up in the news for being unsafe. Whether that is due to dehydration, heat stroke, or illegal substance mixed with the other two things. They have safety guidelines implemented but they could be improved or changed. SMF could use more people on deck at the festivals as a safety patrol or a safety ambassador that would walk around the grounds to make sure that okay and not in any danger. Let get together and make SMF safe again. Sunset Music Festival is a music festival that happens annually behind the Raymond James Arena in Tampa FL every year for the past five to six years during the summer months. This time of the year is known as the festival season with festivals happening all over the states. There are a lot of people who enjoy going to these events because festivals are fun to go to with friends, have fun, to plan outfits for, and a place to dance to live music. Sunset Music Festival has a down and water on the festival grounds but they could be moved or repositioned to make it more convenient for the festivalgoers (Safety P1). The water stations are in the middle of the two stages, which seems like a good placement but they are right next to where the other cold beverages are sold and that seem to be spread out enough. They should move the stations closer to the stages that way if someone gets dehydrated they can Vargas 2 go thirty feet over and fill up their water bottles, or add a third one to be in the middle and move the other two closer to the stages. The lines are the crazy part, lines were always too long for the free water stations almost all the time, and people were almost obligated to buy the four dollar water bottles. I also have seen some girls pass out in those (personal interview with a participant from SMF 2016) and to some people, a little unsanitary to put a hose in your water bottle after hundreds of people have done the same. difficult to be jumping around all day in the Florida heat, and that can put some real stress on bodies like dehydration and heat strokes. Dehydration occurs when we lose three to five percent or more of our body weight, assuming people know that humans are made up of about fifty-five to sixty percent of water (Dehydration p2). While, heatstroke can occur when temperature rises to dangerous levels and cannot be controlled through normal mechanisms, such as this means that the internal temperature is rising at a high rate to where the body cannot keep up with stabilizing itself (Heat Exhaustion and Heat Stroke p1). Both of these are important to understand before going into an outdoor music festival in the heat for about twelve hours on end. Although Sunset Music Festival has noticed their problems and adjusted accordingly by putting more cool down areas and higher security, such as metal detectors and search dogs. This being said, there are still people getting into some trouble. For example, those dogs are only there for keeping out Marijuana and not the other hard-core drugs that the participants were overdosing and taken to the hospital for. difficult trying to get people to understand that this does affect the people around you. was getting a little too hot and started getting these are a couple of the of dehydration and heat stroke side effects (Personal Interview). If there was higher security staff then the use of the drugs should be decreasing, especially when there are people that were giving underaged adults these drugs and drinks are almost guaranteed Vargas 3 to ruin times especially since a stranger and no one really knows what they could be giving away or selling. They could have more drug patrols out there working the event to make sure that no one is in any harm (with drugs) and to report any suspicious activity to the police that are walking around the event. It just seem like the best idea to be getting or taking illegal substances in the Florida heat for over five hours while exerting energy at this music festival. Music festivals always this way and apparently, they were a lot calmer when they first started. These festivals were mainly based around Jazz music in 1954 (Music Festival p1). A lot of people found these events enjoyable and other nations around the world started hosting their own diverse music festivals into the 1990s and early twenty-first (Music Festival p2). This being said, Sunset Music Festival is mostly Electric Dance Music (EDM), which is usually in relation to raves. Electric Dance Music is a genre that includes a wide variety of music produced in the past 30 years and was born from the ashes of disco in the early 1980s (What Can You Teach With Electronic Dance Music? p4). A way our community can help make going to festivals not only fun but also safe. If they want to help the festivalgoers have fun but also be safe all people have to do is to go to Sunset Music website and fill out the email to voice their concerns. People could also work the event on both days that Sunset Music Festival hosted and get paid. This allows the participants to feel more at ease with safety patrols walking around to make sure people are okay. So, to get involved with working the event, lend a helping hand, and to keep watchful eyes over the festivalgoers, is by emailing Sunset Music Festival about wanting to be able to get paid while helping others and listening to cool music while keeping others safe. Another way to help is by sending concerned emails to Vargas 4 their sponsors like Disco Donnie because if enough people voice their concerns they are going to be held accountable when things go bad. Getting involved with helping out this cause is really simple. Emailing or calling Sunset Music Festival or their sponsors about how to help others during the event, the way they set up their water stands, or how they should improve their technology for the drug issue would really help out festivalgoers in the upcoming festival session. There are many solutions and ideas that people can and will come up with ways to help music festivalgoers so they can enjoy their time with their friends and music while being safe. Like, more water stations, lower prices if at all possible, more help or paid volunteers, more safety and drug ambassadors, and technology. There will always be a way to improve how systems are operated and how the can continuously be enhanced on. Sunset Music Festival will thank you in the long run for helping their cause! only a click away, miss out on making music festival a fun and safer place. Vargas 5 Work Cited Berria, Matthew, PhD. Heat Exhaustion and  Medical Guide (Online Edition), January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=ers&AN=89093432&site=eds-live. 21 April 2017. Graetzer, Daniel G., PhD, and Amy Webb, DSN, APN Bull.  Medical Guide (Online Edition) (2017): Research Starters. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login .aspx?direct=true&db=ers&AN=89093382&site=eds-live 21 April 2017. Halick, Mary E. What Can You Teach with Electronic Dance Music? A Music Guide to  General Music Today, vol. 30, no. 1, Oct. 2016, pp. 4-10. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1177/1048371316637887. 21 April 2017. Ruth, Michael. Music  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=ers&AN=87323876&site=eds-live. 21 April 2017.  Sunset Music Festival 2017, https://smftampa.com/info/safety Accessed 21 April 2017. Jackson, Rhianna. (21 April 2017). Personal interview with someone who when to SMF.