Leverett 1 Shandrea Leverett Hannah Lay Composition II 15 April 2017 Physician Assisted Suicide Controversy surrounding Physician Assisted Suicide has occurred due to the issues on whether it is an ethical practice or not. Physician Assisted suicide is the end of life care treatment that patients can legally request and obtain medication from their doctor in order to pass away in a peaceful manner while still maintain their dignity. This practice at first could not be used freely due to laws put in place, but because of the Oregon Model this changed how the practice could be used. The Oregon model is an act, on October 27,1997, that allowed Oregonians to freely end their lives through the usage of lethal medication. Now in certain states Death with Dignity can be practiced without the punishment of doctors or other healthcare professions. With the growing popularity and increased change of the laws in favor for Death with Dignity, expanding it to healthcare facilities to non-engaged stakeholders like Hospice, can give a monetary benefit to these facilities. Death with Dignity is not about the premade facts that are given to them. Death with Dignity is the name of the concept given to the action that a terminally ill patient can die in the way they want. This term became commonly associated with Physician assisted suicide. Physician assisted suicide was created to help expand the freedom and knowledge of their patients. They help to provided information for end of life care as well as expand the healthcare treatments and services for the patient (Compassion & Choices Board of Directors), by working in and with the healthcare system to help normalize medical treatment for the at the last stage of their life. Because of the pass incarnation of healthcare providers, Leverett 2 there is not a list or a certain doctor that does this procedure, but this means a patient can find a doctor that is willing to help participate. In the Frequently asked questions, the medication given to patient can be self-administered or can be done by your physician as stated in the Death with Dignity organization (FAQ). The medication provided to the patient is usually medications stated by the law to use. The price range for the medication can range from $15,000 to $25,000 for the liquid form to $400 to $500 for the powdered form. Others who would like to receive end of life care can travel to states were the service is provided. Death with Dignity provides a list of safeguards to patient as preventatives to make sure certain situations do not occur. Examples of these safeguards are patient must wait 48 hours from their written request to fill their and patient may rescind the request at any There are numerous website and grassroot organizations across America that help support and educate on the topic of Physician Assisted suicide. These organizations include the Death with Dignity.com and compassion and choices.org that are the most common websites for Physician assisted suicide. Incorporating Death with Dignity into healthcare facilities, these long and short term care facilities can benefit financially. Different care facilities like Hospice or any other palliative medicine are alike in their views. In the belief, that the needs and wants of the patient and their family are well thought of and put into consideration during the life medical decisions as stated by Raymond Hawkins (1). Meaning that incorporating the two facilities into one would be easy to do and would not take much time and effort in having to combine the two. There is even one facility in Oregon that has started a service that provides both hospice and Death with Dignity in the same place called Oregon hospice. There they have worked to try to get more hospice and palliative care facilities to do the same. By incorporating these two facilities the financial benefit would be far greater than if these companies were separated. The companies can benefit from the cost of naturally in facility living. The companies can also charge for the cost of psychological care for the patient and family members. As well as the cost for treatment for pain, and of course the cost for the patient to receive the end of life medication. Daniel Leverett 3 Haney makes the statement that the exact amount of who would participate in physician assisted suicide is unknown, but compared to another country where the practice is allowed everywhere the financial benefit is great (1). If the practice continues to expand and grow in the United States this can create a significant benefit to these incorporated companies. For patients, the financial advantage is minimal or nonexistent. There would not be any kind of dramatic saving, $600 million in fact would be collected annually claimed by Daniel Callahan. This number is very close to the average American altogether as a nation would pay for their end of life care. Facilities can help to expand the practice of physician assisted suicide as well as the terminology of Death with Dignity by donating and educating people about it. By doing this facility can also reduce the chance of being sued for not giving their patient the right healthcare treatment, since the decision to receive and in most cases, administering the medication would be the patients. As stated by Michael White, covered included inclusion of safeguards to ensure that the request for assistance in dying is voluntary, 1). Healthcare facilities like hospice should donate to the organizations and grassroots that participate in helping to fight legislatures to help gain rights for physician assisted suicide. These facilities should help to fight against legislation by funding physician assisted suicide since the physician assisted suicide is similar to another healthcare profession that is legal. Physician withdrawal of life sustaining treatment, which is perfectly legal, is like that of physician assisted suicide although it is not legal in all states (Huddle 2). By donating to the supports of physician assisted suicide rights can be obtained due to the steady funding from healthcare facilities and the growing popularity it will begin to have in America. Besides donating healthcare facilities like Hospice can get involved by spreading the word of physician assisted suicide through educating their patients. Theses palliative care facilities can do so through having brochures and pamphlets about physician assisted suicide. They can also you it as a treatment option when talking to their patients. Leverett 4 Incorporating these two kinds facilities can better improve and provide healthcare services for terminally or chronically ill patients. As well as to help expand the laws and restrictions against physician assisted suicide. They can better spread the word of physician assisted suicide and the organizations that support the end of life treatment. All the while, palliative care facilities can gain greater revenue then they would without the combing of the companies. Hospice centers can join in to better educate people and their patients on what Death with Dignity is. They can also help spread the word about physician assisted suicide and Death with Dignity by sharing and providing pamphlets and brochures to give and keep in their facilities. Leverett 5 Works Cited Compassion & Choices Board of  Compassion & Choices. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.compassionandchoices.org/who-we-are/>.  Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.deathwithdignity.org/faqs/>.  Oregonhospice.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Hawkins, Raymond C. Agency and Communion in End-Of-Life  Illness, Crisis & Loss, vol. 25, no. 2, Apr. 2017, pp. 87-106. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1177/1054137315606819 HUDDLE, THOMAS S. Moral Fiction or Moral Fact? The Distinction between Doing and Allowing in Medical  Bioethics, vol. 27, no. 5, June 2013, pp. 257-262. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/j.1467-8519.2011.01944.x. Staff, CBSNews.com Staff CBSNews.com. Economics Of Assisted  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 15 July 1998. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.cbsnews.com/news/economics-of-assisted- suicide/>. White, Michael H. Physician-Assisted Dying: Developments in State  Gpsolo, vol. 33, no. 4, Jul/Aug2016, p. 30. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN=117333872&site=ehost-live.