Running Head: WHAT CAN BE DONE TO REDUCE GUN VIOLENCE? 1 What Can Be Done to Reduce Gun Violence? Lauren Berns University of South Florida Running Head: WHAT CAN BE DONE TO REDUCE GUN VIOLENCE? 2 Gun violence is undeniably a major issue in this country. Every day, more than 300 people are injured or killed by firearms in the United States. In each year, more than 17,000 children and teens alone are shot Compared to similarly developed countries, the US has a strikingly high gun homicide rate, more than the next 3 nations combined (Leach- Kemon, 2016). All of this should come as no surprise when taking into account the sheer number of guns in the United states. roughly one gun for every person in America (Matthews, 2016). This is a multi-faceted problem, and there are many potential solutions to it. The single most actionable and effective option you can take today is to call your congressman and urge them to vote in favor of stricter background checks for firearm sales, a measure which would serve to directly reduce the homicide rate in the United States. important to understand this issue before one can act on it. Firstly, it is worth knowing that the United overall homicide rate (not just with guns) is significantly higher than the rest of the developed There are a variety of reasons for this, including (but not limited to) incarceration rates, healthcare prices, and stress in the workplace. Given that, it would be easy to draw the conclusion that mental illness is to blame, since in one way or another these problems can be related back to mental health issues. Children of incarcerated parents are likely to become unstable adults, people who afford healthcare can become homeless, leading to drug abuse and mental illness, and a general culture of overworking and excess stress good for the mind. That, combined with the fairly common perception that mass shooters are all mentally ill would lead one to conclude that working to fix the mental illness problem would fix the gun violence problem, right? Unfortunately, that is not the case. This to downplay the mental health issue the US has (It certainly needs to be addressed), but only a tiny fraction of gun violence is committed by the mentally ill, just like how mass shootings themselves only make up Running Head: WHAT CAN BE DONE TO REDUCE GUN VIOLENCE? 3 a small fraction of the overall homicides. The bigger picture here is that the gun violence problem in America have all that much to do with mental illness. Studies conclude that only roughly 5% of violent acts are attributable to serious mental illness (Matthews, 2016). With this evidence, worthwhile to set sights on other ways of solving gun violence problem. One example of gun violence in America is that of domestic abuse. a known fact that merely owning a gun puts one at a higher risk of gun violence (Capozziello, 2014), but one interesting facet of this fact is how gun ownership affects women. Specifically, women who are or were victims of domestic violence. This is interesting to investigate because the correlation between access to a gun and death by homicide is stronger for women than for men. When comparing female victims of domestic violence, it was found that 51% of women who were killed by their abuser had a gun in the house, whereas for survivors of domestic abuse, only 16% of them had a gun in the home. (Appelbaum et al, 2010) But domestic violence is just one example of guns increasing danger. In the greater population, is there any correlation between gun ownership and homicide? That is to say, do parts of the country with more guns have higher homicide rates? As it turns out, the answer is yes. a vast amount of statistical, empirical data been collected over the years that indicates that violent crime is, in fact, linked to gun ownership. According to the Harvard Injury Control Research Center (2015), broad array of evidence indicates that gun availability is a risk factor for homes, cities, states and regions in the U.S., where there are more guns, both men and women are at a higher risk for This study uses a wide variety of methodologies, and all of them find that on all levels, guns are strongly correlated with violent crime. Running Head: WHAT CAN BE DONE TO REDUCE GUN VIOLENCE? 4 Yet another example of gun ownership being correlated with violence is in homicide of law enforcement officers. It would seem intuitive to assume that states with higher crime rates have higher rates of police officer deaths, but they are in fact correlated with rates of household gun ownership. According to an article published in the American Journal of Public health, there is a higher likelihood that law enforcement officers in high-gun states will be murdered than those in low-gun states. In fact, they differ by a factor of three. (Swedler et al, 2015) With the overwhelming evidence that gun ownership is linked to high homicide rates, the question must be asked: can we do about The most obvious answer would be to lower gun ownership levels, but simply reducing the number of people who own guns is no small task. And to be sure, it would be an unpopular decision. Much was made of former president supporting statements towards gun ban, leading to a fairly widely-held sentiment that he was out to take guns away among gun-rights advocates (Davidson, 2015). Though it would be both impractical and objectionable to merely confiscate guns (either at random, or by banning certain types of guns), there is a way to keep guns out of the hands of criminals. This solution is the proliferation of stricter background checks for gun sales. This solution holds wide support among Americans, with 93 percent found to be in favor of background checks. This includes 83 percent of gun owners! The trouble is, federal law only requires licensed gun sellers to conduct background checks, meaning that criminals are free to buy guns from private sellers. To fight criminal usage of firearms, the background check laws must be made stricter to close this loophole. With such wide support of background checks, it stands to reason that it be too difficult of a bill to garner support for. The only trouble is, congress is under pressure from the gun lobby to not enact such legislation 2016). This is where you come in. Running Head: WHAT CAN BE DONE TO REDUCE GUN VIOLENCE? 5 With all that in mind, what can you do to help? The single most effective thing a single person can do to get what they want done in government is to contact their representative. an easy process. The first thing to do is to determine who your congressman is and how to contact them. The website for the US House of Representatives, house.gov, will direct you towards your representative, and will have links for emailing or calling them. Once you have this information, the next step is to compose a message. This varies from person to person, but the general structure of the message could be something like: am writing you to urge you to vote to close gun sales loopholes that allow criminals to legally acquire guns. This puts us all at risk. Over 90% of Americans support background checks, so in your best interest to vote in favor of expanding their application. This is for the good of all of us, and will reduce gun violence in the United Then you would sign your name. This is just an example of course, but a good template for a message. Reducing the homicide rate in the country is a notion just about anyone can get behind. If everyone contacted their congressman, it would really get the message across and make a positive change in the world. It would say to them, going to stand up for what we believe in, which is the safety of our friends, family, and fellow an uphill battle, but with enough support, they will be pressured to act so as to appease their constituents. You can make a difference in this country, and helping reduce the homicide rate is a great way to do so. Running Head: WHAT CAN BE DONE TO REDUCE GUN VIOLENCE? 6 Running Head: WHAT CAN BE DONE TO REDUCE GUN VIOLENCE? 7 References Appelbaum, P. S., & Swanson, J. W. (2010, July). Guns and Mental Illness: How sensible are the current restrictions? Retrieved April 18, 2017, from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20591996 Background Checks. (2016). Retrieved April 19, 2017, from http://everytown.org/issue/background-checks/ Capozziello, C. (2014, January 20). Study: Guns in home increase suicide, homicide risk. Retrieved April 18, 2017, from http://www.cbsnews.com/news/study-guns-in-home- increase-suicide-homicide-risk/ CDC: WISQARS Injury Center. (2014, December). Retrieved April 18, 2017, from https://www.cdc.gov/injury/wisqars/ Davidson, H. (2015, June 23). Obama backs gun laws while condemning latest mass shootings in US. Retrieved April 18, 2017, from https://www.theguardian.com/us- news/2015/jun/23/obama-backs-australias-gun-laws-while-condemning-latest-mass- shootings-in-us Leach-Kemon, K. (2016, June 13). Visualizing gun deaths - Comparing the U.S. to rest of the world. Retrieved April 18, 2017, from http://www.humanosphere.org/science/2016/06/visualizing-gun-deaths-comparing-u-s- rest-world/#prettyPhoto Matthews, D. (2016, June 13). 11 Facts About Gun Violence in the United States. Retrieved April 18, 2017, from http://www.vox.com/cards/gun-violence-facts/guns-per-capita- america-us Running Head: WHAT CAN BE DONE TO REDUCE GUN VIOLENCE? 8 Swedler, D. I., Simmons, M. M., Dominici, F., & Hemenway, D. (2015). Firearm Prevalence and Homicides of Law Enforcement Officers in the United States. American Journal of Public Health, 105(10), 2042-2048. doi:10.2105/ajph.2015.302749