Aloraier 1 Nawaf Fahad T. Aloraier Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 3 May 2017 Use Your Common Sense and Get The Guns Off Your Street. America is such a remarkable nation. Not just for the outstanding education they have, the strong economy they have built over the years, or the fact that it is leading the world in important matters. America is remarkable for the number of guns on its streets, the exceptional rate of gun murders, and the upsetting high figure of each gun deaths. Other nations do not have the same issues that the United States have. Other modern nations do not have thousands of deaths on an annual rate, nor school shootings, and no country is as armed as if it is under attack such as this country. Other nations do not have the same gun issues America has. Many people are surrounded by guns and afraid of being shot. Being threatened by the guns surrounding them kids will have a tremendous negative impact growing up. The Department of Education should teach children and teenagers on how to avoid guns and gangs that endorse them also to add self-defence classes to help them in unavoidable situations. To establish courses such as gun education and avoidance will help people avoiding them since it has been taught that it is dangerous. Because of being harmful and causing many deaths in the United States it is obligated to ensure more safety in this country by putting more restrictions on guns and use the Department of Education resources to begin teaching its citizens on how to avoid them from a young age. The Department of Education mission statement is promote student achievement and preparation for global competitiveness by fostering educational excellence and ensuring equal (U.S. Department of Education). In the statement, the word safe or any synonym of it is not there which is ironic since it is responsible for educating the population. Aloraier 2 The department plays a tremendous and an extremely important role in the life. By inserting a required elective for both genders on guns and their safety with self-defence classes to insure the safety of the students. The structure will be that one verbal class in elementary school educating the students on the negativity of guns, and the other class will be verbal (same as first) but more intensive and a physical class which is the self-defence class. Both of these periods (verbal and physical classes) will be taught in high school. And classes are to be taught by professionals with mandatory tests to pass Because in this way the Department of Education will benefit by ensuring and preserve the life of the American people. Also, they will be able to educate all and to minimize the high rates of homicides in America, gun violence will end, and poor neighbourhood will become safer. An experiment on children and adults was conducted to see their reactions when seeing guns and knives and then they express their feelings and thoughts about them after previewing them, all people felt and thought of aggressive words and ideas when seeing a gun regardless of their age by saying words such as destroy and hurt (Benjamin, Jr, et al 6-7). By making it a habit of inserting guns in movies, billboards, and magazines people will start to build an aggressive behaviour from a young age on how guns will make you powerful and give you a feeling of being cool a call for these types of adds is restrict them to adults such by promoting the adds after 11:00 p.m. like NewZealend, since no child is supposed to see killings that could eventually affect them. Nonetheless, weapons are not the only way to protect yourself and the ones you love from anyone or anything, there self-defence classes, always be on guard and do not let yourself be presseured into somthing you are comfortable with. All of the casualties of being harmed with guns could have been avoided or reduced if more restrains on guns were applied, raising awareness of the negativity of owning them, and educating people from a young age. According to David Hemenway, number of Aloraier 3 American civilian gun deaths in the twenty-first century (2000-2015) is greater the sum of all US combat deaths in World War I plus World War II plus the conflict in Korea and (201). Again, America has remarkable ratings such as having one of the best economies in the world, it is the mother-hen when it comes to freedom matters, and it is one of the best attraction places for education, but unfortunately, it also has one of the highest ratings of homicides. Solutions to reduce homicides are not out of hands. Many solutions could be done to reduce the danger of guns such as by teaching them in schools on how to put the weapons in a safe place, owning a weapons safe, and if you are a college student you can store it with the campus police (for free). Frattaroli, et al. write  Gun storage patterns may have changed over the years, reducing access to guns and their risk of unintentional firearm death in households with (53). With solutions available everywhere there is still homicides because of people not being educated on how to use them properly. Since the second amendment states that well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be (second amendment). There is only little to do but still can reduce homicides such as increasing background checks and make them fully and mandatory, increase the legal age of owning a weapon to 21 like the age limit of drinking alcohol, and prohibit criminals from owning a gun. Lanza study indicates results, based on panel data for the 50 states over the 2010 period and estimated under several alternative model suggest that looser restrictions will likely do little to lessen the incidence of gun deaths but that tighter restrictions may produce a modest reduction in (902). Just for starting with a small position like the age restriction or the background checks it does not mean that your position is weak rather it will make a call for more laws to be set in regarding of guns. Aloraier 4 Educating courses are important for ensuring the safety of student of all ages. According to Williamson, el al, and mental health care providers in paediatric settings can play an important role in educating families about gun safety and in preventing youth involvement in gun (88). When teaching the students from a young age it will be easier to inform and make sure the information they receive will not be forgotten. If we teach a pupil from elementary to middle school on how guns are bad and sometimes come with consequences they will be safer and they will keep their distance from them. In all, gun violence is increasing and fire arm homicide ratings are too big to ignore and because of being harmful guns in the United States need to be in the write hands only. People must collaborate to start being educated from a young age and learn that it is obligated to ensure more safety in this country by putting more restrictions on guns, and use the department of education resources to begin teaching its citizens on how to avoid them from a young age. Little by little could accomplish a lot and instead of making America best at education, economy, politics, it will also be one of the safest places on earth. Aloraier 5 Work Cited Benjamin, Arlin James and Brad J. Bushman. The Weapons Priming  Current Opinion in Psychology, 2016, pp. 6-7. Accessed 20 April, 2017. Department of Education mission statement: About Department of Education. U.S Department of Education. ED Pubs, 20 October 2011. Accessed 20 April, 2017. Frattaroli, Shannon, et al. Unintentional Gun Injuries, Firearm Design, and Prevention: What We Know, What We Need to Know, and What Can Be  Journal of Urban Health, no. 1, 2002, pp. 53. Accessed 20 April, 2017. Hemenway, David. Reducing Firearm  Crime & Justice, vol. 46, no. 1, Jan. 2017, pp. 201. Accessed 20 April, 2017. Lanza, Steven P. The Effect of Firearm Restrictions on Gun-Related Homicides across US  Applied Economics Letters, vol. 21, no. 13, Sept. 2014, pp. 902. Accessed 20 April, 2017. Williamson, Ariel A., et al. The Role of Health and Mental Health Care Providers in Gun Violence  Clinical Practice in Pediatric Psychology, vol. 2, no. 1, Mar. 2014, pp. 88. Accessed 20 April, 2017.