Watts 1 Mitchell Watts Professor Van Winkle ENC 1102 26 April 2017 Join the Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence Organization Eighty five percent of video games that are being sold contain some form of violence (Scutti, CNN, July 26, 2016). The twentieth century has evolved in terms of technology in so many ways, including video games. Have you noticed how many kids play video games, whether it is apps on their phones, or games on consoles, such as Xbox or Play Station? Graphics have improved, there are more game modes, and violence is usually included. Some popular games are Call of Duty, Grand Theft Auto, Battlefield, Halo, and Modern Warfare. This must be what kids enjoy, violence, but violent video games have been proven to have negative effects on children. Since technology has advanced, kids tend to sit inside more often instead of going outside to get exercise. Parents, you probably notice a difference in your child after they play violent video games. Join the Mothers Against Videogames Addiction and Violence (MAVAV) program to help keep your kids and others away from violent video games and the negative effects that come with them. Their mission statement is parents of the fastest growing addiction and the most reckless endangerment of children (mavav.org). Violence can come in many different ways when it comes to video games. This includes guns, blood, death, abusive language, and much more. Violent games show success through murder, they can show disrespect towards women, sexual content is included, and many games have inappropriate language (St. John, Laura, 2016). In 2013, an eight year old boy shot and killed his grandmother after playing Grand Theft Auto (huffingtonpost.com). Everyone knows Watts 2 that many kids enjoy video games, but parents need to be knowledgeable about the games that their children are playing. Advancement in technology has made kids more interested in playing video games, such as the creation of new consoles, better graphics, and new games that come out every year. One hundred fifty five million Americans play video games regularly and four out of five households contain a video game console of some kind (Lofgren, 2016). Nowadays, parents are helping their kids get violent games when their kids are not old enough to play them. Also, retailers should not allow under aged kids to buy games that are over their age limit. Games are rated appropriately, so that parents and kids know if they should play those games or not. The National Institute on Media and the Family were a part of fifty eight operations and figured out that about half the time twelve year olds could buy M rated games, or Mature rated games that are for people seventeen or older (Tapper, 2007). Parents really need to pay attention to these ratings. The Entertainment Software Ratings Board (ESRB) sets ratings for games and they take violence into account. Another study, consisted of asking 1,221 parents of children that are seventeen years old if they cared about what kinds of games they played. People do not realize the amount of parents that do not care. About sixty four percent of these parents stated that they did not care. Fifty five percent thought that age restrictions did not matter (Hick, 2012). Even the American Psychological Association thinks there is a correlation between aggressive behavior and children that play violent games as reported in August of 2015 (Albanese Jr., 2015). Parents should care about what kinds of video games their kids play, because if they play violent video games they can be negatively affected by them. It is important to recognize the symptoms of how kids can be negatively affected by them. Symptoms include violent behavior, pretending to be violent characters from the games, staying indoors, poor grades, altercations with teachers, and getting into fights with other children (pamf.org). Most parents should care Watts 3 about their decisions and actions. That is why joining the MAVAV can help educate parents about violent video games as well as spread information to others, so that they can join. Poor decisions can also involve murder. Not virtual video game murder, real life murder. A recent event included an eighteen year old gunman who killed nine people in Munich, Germany. He was known to have liked first person shooter video games (Scutti, CNN, July 26, 2016). Another concern, is how violent video games are being promoted by companies that have nothing to do with the gaming industry, such as restaurants. is an example of this. promoted a violent video game called Manhunt 2 by coming up with a meal plan for kids. This included changing the logo from a harmless little girl to something disturbing. The head of the girl was on top of a muscular male body, which included red eyes, tattoos, hatchets, and guns (mavav.org). Restaurants should not alter their logo to make it look scary, especially not to help promote violence through video games. It is wrong for a restaurant to help promote a violent game. People will have mixed reactions to this, so it is better to not get involved. By joining the MAVAV we can stand together and stop restaurants from promoting violent video games. Knowing all of this information, it is important that you join the MAVAV to help stand up against kids playing violent video games. The more people that join the MAVAV the better. The sooner people join the better, so go to www.mavav.org and sign up. We need as many people as possible to join, so that we can teach people about the negative effects of violent video games. The more people that join, the easier it is to spread information. This also means that we will have more power and a stronger say in what happens in the future. Technology will continue to develop over time, which means more violent video games that consist of horrific graphics and violence. Parents need to play an active role in guiding their children in the right direction Watts 4 and one way to help them is by not allowing them to play violent games, especially at a young age. You can learn much more by being a part of the MAVAV. It is important that parents know how much of a negative impact violent video games can have on kids. Parents tend to ignore this issue, or they are uneducated about this topic. That is why joining the MAVAV is important. We can make a difference in this world by keeping kids safe and teaching parents about violent video games. We do not want grades to drop, have them commit crimes, or get in fights with other children. Once parents become educated on this topic they will notice symptoms caused by violent video games. They need to care about what their children get involved with and need to set rules for their kids. A great way to become educated on this topic and to stop video game violence is by joining the MAVAV. Watts 5 Works Cited Video Games and Aggressive pamf.org. www.pamf.org/parenting- teens/general/media-web/violentgames.html Tapper, Jake. are Helping Kids get Violent Video abcnews.go.com. 4 December 2007. http://abcnews.go.com/WN/story?id=3953474&page=1. Accessed 4 April 2017. Hick, Melanie. Care if Kids Play Violent Video huffingtonpost.co.uk. 11 April 2012. http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk/2012/04/11/study-parents- Accessed 4 April 2017. Albanese Jr., Giovanni. Video Games Create Aggression, but Do They Cause Kids to Commit healthline.com. 14 August 2015. http://www.healthline.com/health- news/violent-video-games-create-aggression-but-they-do-cause-kids-to-commit-081415#1. Accessed 4 April 2017. MAVAV. mavav.org. www.mavav.org/index.php?page=1 St. John, Laura. Ways Violent Video Games Are Bad for Your huffingtonpost.com. 7 November 2013. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/laura-st-john/8-ways- Accessed 4 April 2017. Intentionally Shot And Killed Elderly Caregiver After Playing Grand Theft huffingtonpost.com. 25 August 2013. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/08/24/8-year- Accessed 20 April 2017. Scutti, Susan. video games lead to cnn.com. 26 July 2016. www.cnn.com/2016/07/25/health/video-games-and-violence/. Accessed 22 February 2017. Watts 6 Lofgren, Krista. Video Game Statistics & Trends Playing What & bigfishgames.com. 8 February 2016. www.bigfishgames.com/blog/2016-video-game-statistics- and-trends/. Accessed 22 February 2017.