Khoo 1 Win Sheng Khoo Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.909 21 April 2017 Music Education Is A Necessity For Youths. People often judge music lessons as some entertainment courses or second-class subjects compared to courses related to science, mathematics and English language. According to Jill Hambek, there were just a small dap of public funding has been contributed to art programs in some schools due to disvalue of music education. This scenario is often meant to be normal because people in 21th Century are all relying on technology. Therefore, most people are more likely to consider science and mathematics as primary choice rather than art. Interestingly, Jehan Mattar stated people interact with music since young age as children who listen to music regularly demonstrate better development than those who do (370). This fact could be connected to the effect called Effect. Effect is one crucial point in here as it was believed to have the ability of raising intelligence (Hammond). This leads to people need to have good music foundation which means music is important in early education. As an educational organization, British Council should add music programs into their education system by cooperating with professional music organization like Associated Board of the Royal Schools of Music (ABRSM) because Effect could help people to learn English language even better. Therefore, young people must take music programs because it is a necessity for future developments. After all since Effect has been proposed to the world about 20 years ago. Scientists conducted a list of experiments to evaluate the true value of Effect. As in Khoo 2 general, Effect was believed to be able to let people become smarter after listening to classical music (Hammond). In fact, Effect will be only reflected from people who have musical experience. Notice that Effect has a strong connection of learning English. Our brain structures and connections between activated brain areas could be caused by music as in a result of enhancement of phonological loop (Gruhn 100). In another words, children who learn music would have stronger storage of verbal information. This benefit could improve the performance of students when learning English language. To emphasize on how important is music in early education, learning music will able the young ones to achieve benefits of Effect as it enhances their developments. Speaking of education, British Council is one successful example of education organization as the United international organization provides English language course for over 100 countries scattered around the world. Their mission is to promote English language as they stated work in English aims to bring high-quality language materials to every learner and teacher who wants para. 1-3). According to Sandra Comas, English is important because student who can write in the language of higher-level English can more readily speak it and understand this English when heard or (42). Moreover, British Council believes that their goals in education and society are able for young people to build up open societies because they encourage international students to study in UK and have opportunity for cultural exchange (para. 4). Comas claimed that the good side of knowing English language as to read and write, listen and speak, with the vocabulary and thinking of a specific area of study, is the ability that best prepares students for success at (41). British Council also claimed that with more people have the ability to speak Khoo 3 English, British Council builds links between UK people and institutions and those around the (para. 6). With music programs added into British Council education system, English learners will be more likely to have better experience of learning English. According to Glenn Schellenberg, his study suggests that education in childhood is linked with the development of IQ and with academic performance although these benefits are not tremendously enlarged but long (457). Thus, learning English language with music lessons along could increase the academic performance on learning. Additionally, Gruhn mentioned that our development of synaptic connections are based on specifically childhood from the sense of neurobiological view (99). Other than this, musical training is important for early learning because it activates rhythmic processes as the need of rhythmic processes able children to have good senses of rhythmic repetition and structured movement; in which allows them to respond to sound with a greater sensitivity (Gruhn 100). In another words, music learners would have better response to sound, therefore also perform better at listening which benefits in learning English language and in communication. Glenn stated the benefits of music education as music brings our culturally diverse population together through the unique harmony of the music of all our (2). As music able to contribute such tremendous effect. It benefits the goal of British Council as in the encouragement of international students to learn English language and to study abroad in the United Kingdom. Also, it is important to notice the common ground of the idea of music education enhances our brains and the interest of British Council which is to promote English language to the world; because music education helps in the learning English language as development improved. Thus, the performance on English learning education would be benefited as students learning performances increased. Furthermore, learning language is a thing that Khoo 4 people started at young ages. Recall that Gruhn stated that our development depends in childhood and could be even better with music education. Music lessons are a necessity to early education, that is why British Council must include music education into their English learning programs due to Effect could bring such tremendous benefits to those learners in their later life. In order to have music classes as a part of British Council system, the first step they should do is to associate with other organization like ABRSM. Because ABRSM is the largest music education association and one of the largest music publishers Secondly, British Council could consult ABRSM and design a round-welled education system for English and Music program with ABRSM for the students. It is also a good idea to have every single student to pick an musical instrument as their main instruments then follow the current curriculum of ABRSM to learn how to play an instrument. Of course, music theory lessons must be included to gain a strong music foundation. In this way, students are able to learn music and English as in a result of advantage of learning music could stimulate brain in order to provide students a better learning mind to learn other courses, say English. Besides that, according to Gruhn, children learn music just same as language as he stated do not start with grammar and theory, but with (100). This win-win situation is inevitable that British Council needs to have their students experience formal exposure of music by including music education into their only language system. Music can stimulate our brains to make it works better as mentioned above and because of this reason music is essential and mandatory for young folks. British Council must include music programs for their students due to the fact that music allows brain to have better function in learning, just as learning English language. Therefore, it is a must and extremely important for Khoo 5 British Council to have music education system into their original work which is to teach English language. Khoo 6 Work Cited ABRSM, gb.abrsm.org/en/about-abrsm/#. Accessed 21 April 2017. Comas, Sandra. for academic IS: International School, vol. 19, no. 2, 2017, pp. 41-42. Education Source, eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=d65c10d8- -4e24- 869c-b47ae97ece91%40sessionmgr103&vid=15&hid=4203. Accessed 11 April 2017. Gruhn, Wilfried. need SAGE journals, vol. 23, no. 2, 2005, pp. 99-101. International Journal of Music Education, doi: doi.org/10.1177/0255761405052400. Accessed 11 April 2017. Glenn, Karl. The Many Benefits Of Music Education - Now and in the  NASSP Bulletin, vol. 76, no. 544, 1992, pp. 1-4, Academic OneFile, URL: journals.sagepub.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/pdf/10.1177/019263659207654402. Accessed 30 Jan. 2017. Hambek, Jill. programs in schools often in danger of being The Washington Times, 14 March 2016, www.washingtontimes.com/news/2016/mar/14/arts-programs-in-schools-often-in- danger-of-being-/. Accessed 30 Jan. 2017. Hammod, Claudia. listening to Mozart really boost your BBC Future, 8 January 2013, www.bbc.com/future/story/20130107-can-mozart-boost-brainpower. Accessed 30 Jan. 2017. Jehan, Mattar. Effect of Music on Child Development in a Jordanina Khoo 7 Education, vol. 133, no. 3, 2013, pp. 370-376. Academic OneFile, URL: eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=2&sid=531803d8 -76b8-4df6-b6e1-d71081b326af%40sessionmgr120. Accessed 30 Jan. 2017. British Council, www.britishcouncil.org/organisation. Accessed 21 April 2017. Schellenberg, E. Glenn. Positive Associations between Music Lessons and Journal of Educational Psychology, vol. 98, no. 2, 2006, pp. 457-468. ERIC, doi: 10.1037/0022-0663.98.2.457. Accessed 11 April 2017.