Salas 1 Jessica Salas Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102 1 May 2017 Have a Toast for Change! One could actually buy a gun, vote for the future leader of our country, adopt a child, or serve in the army at the age of 18 but is not trusted enough to handle alcohol. The minimum legal drinking age should be changed from 21 to 18 because it is time to stop underage students from abusing alcohol due to deprivation and guide them to a safer approach. According to the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence, website, 4 out of 5 college students drink alcohol and of that, half of the ones who drink do so by binge drinking (NCADD). Collegiate Church network revolves around the lives of college students so it would be in their best interest to become involved. Lowering the drinking age would be beneficial to not only teenagers but to Collegiate Church Network since they also want to spread a message amongst college students and want the best for them so signing a petition and supporting this movement would ensure safer behaviors amongst their participants. First of all, the negative behaviors and effects associated with underage drinking are enough grounds to steer towards the possibility of lowering the drinking age to 18, as opposed to 21. Lowering the drinking age would not only prevent behaviors such as binge drinking but it will also prevent its harms and effects from taking its toll on those who choose to underage drink. According to Merriam Webster, binge means unrestrained and often excessive Most people may wonder as to why teens partake in actions like these, but it could root from the law of 21. Since these teens are not allowed to consume alcohol, once they obtain it Salas 2 they tend to abuse it which is common amongst college students. It is seen as some taboo item which adds an almost adrenaline rush when they finally get their hands on it. Also, some teens may not even feel the desire to drink but the pressure to. Since it allowed to do, they may want to look cool and rebellious yet they endanger themselves because they tend to overdrink instead of consuming a safe amount. Sandra article named the Dialogue: Reducing Minimum Legal Drinking Age Laws from 21 to states how appears that alcohol produces greater impairments in learning and more pervasive brain damage in adolescents than in (Jones par 18). This goes to show that allowing teens to continue this behavior will come at a price. All of these reasons considered, lowering the minimum drinking age will bring about many benefits and diminish the dangers of abusing alcohol thus reducing the chances of affecting the health of teenagers and college students around the country. Although not being directly involved with this movement, there is room for a church in this debate. Especially a church that focuses mainly on trying to convey a message to college students, this being the Collegiate Church Network. The Collegiate Church Network owns churches located on several different campus grounds since they are in partnership with over fifteen different colleges so their main audience consists of the college students who attend their church masses. What they do, which is mentioned in their mission statement as found on their website, is plant churches on college campuses that are custom-built for college students; helping them find salvation in Jesus and discover the power of His 20 churches. Over 15 campuses. One Their main motive is evidently to find new followers and teach them about the rules of their religion. The Collegiate Church Network is Christian so there are certain behaviors and beliefs that are practiced within the religion which they hope that the college students follow. The main stereotype would be that a church would have absolutely Salas 3 nothing to do with people who consume alcohol at all but since this network focuses on students they may want to actively stop the behaviors (like binge drinking) that is dangerous for anyone in their congregation thus becoming involved would be beneficial. Both lowering the legal drinking age and the Collegiate Church Network have enough room to coincide and even bring about some benefits. As found on their website, the Collegiate Church Network states that is our hope that they will become lifelong followers involved in their local churches wherever they go, well after they 20 churches. Over 15 campuses. One This shows that they want what they teach their followers to carry on for the rest of their lives which would mean they would advocate for teaching students how to consume alcohol safely, a skill that should be practiced even after college. Since the entire concept behind making the legal drinking age 18 is to ensure safety for people at that age shows that these two could actually collaborate. The Collegiate Church Network would benefit from this because they would not only have safety amongst their congregation but less people sinning. Breaking the law is considered a sin and every church wants their followers to do right. If the law allowed people in their college to legally consume alcohol then they would not be performing a sin which is what every follower should try to stray away from. There is a mutual benefit for people who want to lower the drinking age in that they need supporters. Amethyst Initiative is an organization and petition formed that is signed by several schools who also hope to stop the epidemic of college binge drinking. According to the article Presidents Ask Public To Rethink Drinking by John Dart, it states how comprehensive study on heavy drinking (at least five drinks in a row) among college students showed that the trend peaked in 1984 but remained (Dart 16). With this being said, since the church is partners with over Salas 4 fifteen different schools, it could be another load of schools added on to their list thus advancing their following. There are several things that the Collegiate Church network could do to be able to acquire these benefits and come together as one with the movement of lowering the drinking age. First and foremost, they must talk to the different school chancellors into signing the Amethyst Initiative. This is definitely a step towards getting this law changed but is a long process and requires the most support it could get. Second, the network must start informing their student participants that their actions are not technically frowned upon and they must start doing things safely. Doing this will shed light on the dangers of binge drinking and why they should stop. For example, the Christian article states how epidemic of binge drinking has serious consequences: students who engage in it are far more likely to miss classes, injure themselves and others, and engage in risky sexual (2008). All of which the network, or anyone, would not want the teens to partake in. The main priority is the safety of these 18 and plus year olds so doing anything to help stop them from hurting themselves is ideal. All in all, there are many factors to be considered when determining whether to change the legal drinking age or not. Lowering the drinking age to 18 would be ideal because it prevents minors from drinking in hiding thus irresponsibly. The Collegiate Church network could attest to that because they also want the best for the teens who attend their masses and events so it would clearly be beneficial to them as well and they could achieve it if they got involved, signed petitions, and spread the word. All these efforts could help reduce the dangerous act of binge drinking and show 18 year olds that they are responsible to handle this as well. Salas 5 Works Cited The Christian Century Foundation, Vol. 125 Issue 25, (2008). Web. 15 Apr.2017. Dart, John. College Presidents Ask Public to Rethink Drinking  The Christian Century, Vol. 125, Issue 19, (2008). Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Jones, Sandra N,Lachman, Vicki D. the Dialogue: Reducing Minimum Legal Drinking Age Laws from 21 to Informa Healthcare, (2011). Web. 15 Apr. 2017. 20 churches. Over 15 campuses. One Collegiate Church Network, http://collegiatechurchnetwork.com/who-we-are/our-mission/. Accessed 30 April 2017. and College NCADD, https://www.ncadd.org/about-addiction/underage- issues/underage-and-college-drinking. Accessed 19 April 2017. Aggie Catholic Blog, http://www.aggiecatholicblog.org/. Accessed 19 April 2017.