Patihk 1 Daniel Patihk Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 21 April 2017 Ending Gun Violence with a Bang. According to recently updated statistics presented by the Gun Violence Archive, so far for the year 2017, in less than four months, there has been 18,214 gun related incidents, which includes over 4000 deaths and near 9000 injuries Violence This can be linked to the fact that a survey revealed that by 2015, there were a total of 265 million guns in the hands of Americans, and that this statistic is expected to continue increasing (thetrace.org). However, there is still hope to curtail gun violence in the future, by making the primary focus gun safety. This will be possible by introducing the National Education Association to the topic of gun control and urging them to become active through engagement with the States United to Prevent Gun Violence, which will have benefitting results to both the NEA and to gun control. The debate on gun control and the idea of second amendment rights has become very popular in American culture. However, it was in 2008 during District of Columbia v Heller where The Supreme Court ruled that the second amendment does give an individual the right to ownership of a gun (ontheissues.org). Since then, gun control has become an ongoing debate and gun violence as exponentially increased. Although 91 percent of Americans acknowledge that there should be at least minor restrictions on gun ownership, there still exists events such as gun shows, whereby ideally anyone can walk in and purchase not just a handgun, but an assault weapon with almost no questions asked and no trouble (ontheissues.org). Organizations such as the States United to Prevent Gun Violence have Patihk 2 formed to support the need for gun control, but they are still in need of major support if a true change is to occur. Gun control needs to become a more serious topic in American culture and bans must be implemented against military-style weapons, as well as background checks to anyone attempting to purchase a gun or acquire a gun license, in order to minimize the extent of gun violence. Throughout history, right here in America, there have been numerous instances of mass murder by use of assault rifles. The shooting of Sandy Hook Elementary School, shooting of a party by the San Bernadino County Department of Health, and shooting of a gay nightclub in Orlando have all been by individuals who legally purchased assault rifles to be used for destruction (Soloperto 228). Had these weapons been unavailable to the criminals, these events may have never even happened. It is not possible for a handgun to create the same scenes of mass murder that these assault rifles did. In addition to this, the facts that there are estimated eighty-eight guns per one hundred people in the United and that people are killed each year with (Soloperto 228) clearly shows a correlation between a community saturated with guns and the high murder rate by guns, and by extension supports the nationwide need for increased gun restrictions. This also relates to an academic article that compared America to many others, such as Great Britain and Australia, where there are already existing bans on assault weapons. In both cases, it was proven that these bans reduced the number of mass shootings (Mata 171). Finally, it is important that background checks be issued to people attempting to purchase a gun. This is so that people who are deemed unfit to own a gun, whether they may be seen as a threat to others or even themselves, never get one (McLeigh 201). This is a critical step in reducing the number of deaths by guns and should not be overlooked. There is one particular organization, the National Education Association, that has no engagement with gun control, but can actually be very influential if they were to become Patihk 3 active. The National Education Association claims to be the largest professional employee organization, boasting or three million members working at every level of education. While their mission is advocate for education professionals and to unite our members and the nation to fulfill the promise of public education to prepare every student to succeed in a diverse and interdependent they also believe that with parents, families, communities, and other stakeholders are essential to quality public education and student (nea.org/home). The NEA is a very large organization that is interested in providing a complete education for students and has stated that they believe in working together for common goals. This is their gateway to a relationship with the topic of gun control. If the National Education Association was to become engaged with the topic of gun control, it would result in dual benefit. The NEA has already displayed their belief in working together for a common purpose or goal, and explained the high value that they place on a education. A large part of gun control is gun safety education. However, this is usually sought after privately and independently, rather than being part of the education system. The NEA may not have previously realized this, but they actually have the right goals that make them the perfect candidate to become involved in gun control and an engagement will only see benefits for the NEA. Statistics show that most students will eventually become gun owners and therefore would need gun education to keep themselves and the people surrounding them safe. By providing some form of gun safety education, the NEA will be achieving one of its goals, which is to provide students with a complete education and prepare them to succeed in a diverse world. This engagement will also see gun control benefit. The NEA is a huge organization and therefore has a lot of influential power. The engagement will result in gun control growing in popularity and demand, as well as a Patihk 4 future of consistently well-educated citizens on gun safety. This is how gun control will benefit. Gun safety education can play a major role in advancing gun control and reducing the number of deaths by guns annually. The facts are that third of US homes with children have and 32% to 43% of such homes the guns are (Obeng 395). This means that many students are actually exposed to guns at home, so safety education is definitely necessary. In addition to this, training methods to avoid children playing with guns have already been explored with positive results (Dowd 1847). Firearm training should actually just be viewed as another necessary of protection in firearm injury (Dowd 1847). This is why a gun safety education system should be introduced to the American school system, and with the NEA being the largest community of professional educators, they are the absolute perfect organization to get the job done. The National Education involvement in the topic of gun control is very important and they should therefore take action. Becoming engaged with gun control would not only reduce the number of deaths by guns in America, but would eventually result in a population well educated on gun safety and gun control. The NEA would also reap benefits as they will grow in popularity and revenue since their professionals will now be hired nationwide to educate the youths about gun safety. The NEA should first become involved with a gun control organization such as the States United to prevent Gun Violence, so that they can become more educated on the topic. This can be done through a simple meeting with the board. They should then plan a comprehensive gun safety curriculum with the SUPGV and advocate for its implementation into the national education system. The curriculum should be issued to all students from primary school to high school. This is important because the NEA, being the largest organization of professionals has a lot of influence in the education sector. Finally, the NEA can include the idea of gun control on Patihk 5 their website and web pages to increase the popularity of gun control, which would then increase its demand. Ideally, they can provide a link to a popular petition called Control. and encourage their members to spend just one minute to sign. Strength comes in numbers, especially in a country of democracy, and the weight of a highly-signed petition must not be under estimated. In taking this course to action, the NEA will benefit as well, as previously mentioned, by providing students with a more well-rounded education that is better preparing them to succeed in an independent world, as stated in their mission statement. In summation, gun control is very important in society as there are instances of gun violence every day in America. There are over 265 million guns in America and more than 60 percent of those are non-handgun, meaning that more than 60 percent of those millions of guns in hands are each capable of mass destruction. However, although the battle against gun violence is far from won, turning to gun safety as a focal point through the involvement of the National Education Association in gun control can be a huge step forward for gun control. Therefore, the NEA needs to take action and become associated with the SUPGV and begin planning a gun safety curriculum for children. This is a simple way for the NEA to act that will see huge results. Patihk 6 Works cited Soloperto, Adam P. standard of review for gun rights: the second amendment question hot as a two-dollar Seton Hall Law Review; 2016. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=1&sid=9f705ffc-7cf3-4814- b1ed-cc8d6e3bdf6c%40sessionmgr4008&hid=4108. Acceseed 21 April 2017. Obeng, Cecilia. gun safety be taught in schools? Perspectives of Journal of School Health. August 2010. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=73da7e49-7f30-4a5e-be53- 780ab3e1ca09%40sessionmgr4007&vid=19&hid=4108. Accessed 21 April 2017. McLeigh, Jill D. new normal? Addressing gun violence in American Journal of Orthopsychiatry; May 2015. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=85dff11c-0e54-48d5-9c17- da92e0afa8dd%40sessionmgr4009&vid=21&hid=4103. Accessed 21 April 2017. Dowd, M. Denise. Sege, Robert. Smith, Gary A. Wright, Joseph L. Miltenberger, Raymond G. injury prevention: failure of gun-safety American Academy of Pediatrics; June 2004. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/Legacy/Views/static/html/Error.htm?aspxerrorpath=/eds/Cit ations/FullTextLinkClick. Accessed 21 April 2017. Mata, Ashley. for the Innocent: Why Modeling Gun Regulation after Great Britain, Australia, and Switzerland Will Reduce the Rate of Mass Shootings in California Western International Law Journal; October 2014. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=0ec4eef9-1864-48d3-bdd0- 664bc3b6ad09%40sessionmgr4010&vid=1&hid=4108. Accessed 21 April 2017. New Stats From 2016 That Help Explain Gun Violence in The trace. www.thetrace.org. Accessed 21 April 2017. Patihk 7 on Gun On the issues. http://www.ontheissues.org. Accessed 21 April 2017. Violence Archive Gun Violence Archive. http://www.gunviolencearchive.org/. Accessed 21 April 2017. Mission, Vision and The National Education Association. http://www.nea.org/home. Accessed 21 April 2017.