Al Balushi 1 Nofel Al Balushi John William Composition II (ENC1102) 30 April 2017 The effect of smoking advertisements Did you try smoking before, or even wanted to try the taste of cigarettes? If the answer is yes, there is a big chance that you have been affected by smoking advertisement. Cigarettes dealers and companies such as Philip Morris and Imperial Tobacco are using smart skills and marketing methods to convince people to try their products and start to smoke. Moreover, the number of smokers is increasing and to reduce this issue in the United States, it is important to aware people about the danger of smoking and what could it cause for the human health. On the other hand, there have been many campaigns in the United States that support the anti-Smoking advertisements because they know that this kind of advertisements could reduce the number of smokers. Thus, smoking advertisements are seeking to convince people to start to smoke which is harmful for the human health. In order to do something about this problem, people in the United States need to support anti-smoking advertisements and produce them to inform others about the danger of smoking. Many people in the United States are complaining that there are many smoking advertisements and they are scared that their get affected by those advertisements. However, smoking companies are producing many advertisements and spending lots of money on that, and according to the health literacy website are the most heavily advertised product in the U.S. The tobacco companies spend 4 billion dollars a year or 11 million dollars a Al Balushi 2 day to try to get people to buy cigarettes. Every day the tobacco industry is fighting against the growing number of reports about the health dangers of (Marjorie Jacobs 1997). This shows that big cigarettes companies, like Philip Morris and Imperial Tobacco, just care about money, and care about people health, because they to lose their brand name. Furthermore, according to the article Cigarette Advertising and Teen Smoking Initiation which is published on 2011 study shows that exposure to cigarette advertisements images was associated with smoking initiation in a prospective (Hanewinkel, Isensee, Sargent, and Morgenstern 276). In fact, this study shows that out of 2102 teens aged 11 to 17 years, 277 (which is 13%) started to smoke because of cigarettes advertisement. However, the companies are focusing on teenagers mostly, and as it mentioned in the Targeting Teens article would never know any of this from looking at cigarette ads. The ads show smiling healthy-looking, attractive people, sometimes playing sports--just the opposite of what real cigarette smokers often look and act (Academic Search Premier 1998). This article is showing that people in the advertisements are good looking and in great health conditions, which is the opposite of what it will happen in the real life. Also, in the most cases, cigarettes companies are making advertisements with famous people to make them more effective. Thus, American government need to prohibit advertisements of cigarettes and tobacco, because it is one of the main causes of teen smoking. American citizens want a law that banned cigarettes advertisements, because they know that it is harmful for their and it could cause many health problems. However, The Centers Of Diseases Control And Prevention in the United States shows many real statistics about the health problem that teen smokers faced due to smoking, also it shows that people started to smoke likely when they are teens. Furthermore, the number of teen smokers needs to be reduced Al Balushi 3 because smoking is one of the dangerous things that can cause death. According to the CDC website people died because of lung cancer between 2005 and (CDC website 2016). As it mentioned in the website, smoking is killing many people in the united states each year and the government should do something to reduce the dead numbers such as, banned or reduce the amount of smoking advertisements. Also, producing anti-smoking advertisements. In order to reduce the number of smokers in the united states, there are groups that want to produce anti-smoking advertisement as it mentioned in The Impact of an Antismoking Media Campaign on Progression to Established Smoking: Results of a Longitudinal Youth Study article younger adolescents, those reporting baseline exposure to television antismoking advertisements were significantly less likely to progress to established (Siegel, Michael. Biener, Lois 2000). Thus, this article is against smoking advertisements and the publishers wanted to prohibit smoking advertisements and produce anti-smoking advertisements to reduce the number of smokers in the United States. Also, according to the Anti-smoking advertisements vaccinate movie viewers against effects of on-screen smoking benefits of antismoking advertisements before smoking films is not heavily dependent upon the cultural context. The fact that the advertisement increased concern over the issue of smoking in movies could also have the secondary effect of building support for tobacco control and the (Glantz, Stanton 2010). It shows that the anti- smoking advertisement could help solving this issue. Thus, people in America should help these groups and support them to decrease the number of smokers and make awareness campaigns to prohibit smoking advertisements. Al Balushi 4 In conclusion, cigarettes advertisements are one of the best ways for persuading people to start to smoke. However, smoking advertisements spend lots of money to sell more of their products, but they know that when they make more advertisements and sell more cigarettes, they harm health. Also, as it mentioned in the Center for Diseases Control and Prevention, that smoking is causing many health problems and death in the most cases. Moreover, people are trying to get rid of this issue by forcing the governments to prohibit smoking advertisements and producing anti-smoking advertisements. Thus, by doing so, the number of smokers in the United States would be less. In addition, if the number of smokers reduced, people in the United States would be in a good health conditions. Al Balushi 5 Work Cited Siegel, Michael. Biener, Lois. American Journal Of Public Health. March 2000, Vol. 90 Issue 3, p380-386. 7p. Glantz, Stanton A. Department of Medicine, University of California. Addiction, Vol. 105(7), Jul, 2010. pp. 1278-1279. Targeting Teens. Current Events, 00113492, 2/13/98, Vol. 97, Issue 19. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail ?sid=b0431f89- 6b764347b46c1d30928757ed%40sessionmgr4008&vid=5&hid=4102&bdata=Jn NpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#db=aph&AN=203284 Jacobs, Marjorie. A Comprehensive Adult Basic Education Curriculum. Unit 2. 1997. Centers For Diseases Control And Prevention (2015). Web. Hanewinkel, R, Isensee, B, Sargent, J and Morgenstern, M. (2011) Cigarette Advertising and Teen Smoking  Pediatrics 138.3 (n.d.): n. pag. Web. https://www.cdc.gov/ http://www.altria.com/our-companies/philipmorrisusa/Pages/default.aspx http://www.imperialbrandsplc.com/