John Van Decker Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102-909 02 May 17 Alpha Sig Leadership on Campus Like many universities around the United States, The University of South Florida (USF) offers a numerous amount of opportunities for students to get involved. These opportunities are ones such as Room Assistant (RA), Orientation Leader (OL), and positions at Student Government (SG). Positions such as these allow students to grow personally and socially, while also giving them connections for the future. As a student at USF, one would not want to pass up opportunities such as these, or would they? The Zeta Omicron Chapter of Alpha Sigma Phi, due to excessive involvement on campus has been restricted, in terms of numbers, for how many members can hold certain leadership positions on campus. USF Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life (OFSL) has done this due to the false belief that access to the positions would create a power struggle, that would cause USF to lose diversity in the upper echelons of their student leadership. Also, USF OFSL believes that access to positions such as OL and RA would be unfair in terms of recruitment when it comes to other chapters on campus. Alpha Sigma Phi is an organization whose open motto is Better the The Alpha Sigma Phi mission is, be the co-curricular and continuing organization of and their vision is, Better the World through Better Mission, and The Zeta Omicron Chapter of Alpha Sigma Phi, wishes to better their members in every aspect of their lives. Therefore, it is to be expected that many of the members would be heavily involved on campus. The Big Brothers Big Sisters of Tampa is an organization that wishes to give all children success in life, therefore, it is imperative that they act and support the Zeta Omicron Chapter of Alpha Sigma Phi as there could be major benefits for both parties to gain from the effort as well as a possible solution to the issue at hand. The University of South Florida is an institution that seeks to educate and prepare their students for their future. However, the fact that be willing to restrict their students from opportunities that other students from other affiliations would normally have, makes many think different. Alpha Sigma Phi, Zeta Omicron Chapter works to better their members through positions of leadership on campus to make their members leaders of their own lives as well as gain the ability achieve greatness now and in the future. Ann. T Hilliard, discusses student leadership and involvement in her article, Leadership at the She talks about how leadership ability requires assistance from others, and how it needs to be developed (Hilliard 94). By the end of the article, she also concluded that student leadership holds major benefits for students in the future, and encourages as many college students as possible to get involved (Hilliard 96). If USF OFSL continues to not allow members of this National Greek Letter Organization to have equal rights to participate in these positions, that would be deemed unethical not only by the members of the Zeta Omicron Chapter but also by many in the student body. Researcher James O. Pawelski wrote a journal about ethics called, as Ethical Democracy Definitions and In this journal, Pawelski discusses character development in students and how that directly relates to their success in the future (1). By the end of his journal, he concludes that restricting students from opportunity will stunt their growth in character and will have a direct negative affect on their future growth (Pawelski 21). Management Department Director of Bridgewater State University, Stanley Ross, also wrote an article about leadership development titled, Conceptual Model for Understanding the Process of Self-Leadership Development and Action-Steps to Promote Personal Leadership In this work, he discusses how people become good self-leaders through experience and guidance. This applies to the current issue at hand in that by restricting the members of Alpha Sigma Phi Zeta Omicron Chapter, these students will not only be set back by the lack of opportunity that other students have, they will also be set back in terms of personal growth and will lack the experiences that other students have gained from their college experience. In short, if USF OFSL continues to deprive these students of a proper college experience, said college students can and will suffer in the future socially and in terms of occupation opportunity. Big Brothers Big Sisters of Tampa is an organization who wishes to give children success in life This happens by providing children professional one-on-one relationships that will change their lives forever, and would last a lifetime. Big Brothers Big Sisters of Tampa provides children with, aspirations, greater confidence, and better relationships as well as avoidance of risky behaviors, and educational which in turn allows children to grow up in a healthier environment. Also, Big Brothers Big Sisters of America is the largest donor and volunteer supported mentoring network By pairing children from ages 6 to 18 years of age and adult volunteers, Big Brothers Big Sisters aims to develop meaningful relationships that help shape a community, and drive children towards success in the social, mental/emotional and academic fields. As a non-engaged stakeholder to the issue at hand, Big Brothers Big Sisters could benefit greatly from working with the Zeta Omicron Chapter. The current issue at hand involves two parties, USF OFSL, and the Zeta Omicron Chapter. Big Brothers and Big Sisters of Tampa can support a fellow philanthropic organization and mitigate this issue while also being able to reap the benefits of engagement. By assisting Alpha Sigma Phi in their pursuit to get USF OFSL to rid of restrictions on student leadership positions, the Big Brothers Big Sisters of Tampa will be advocating for personal growth among college age individuals and will be able to spread their name through another organization. Support from another philanthropic organization that is off campus will allow The Zeta Omicron Chapter to make more progress in the situation due to a larger organization being involved. Researchers Desiree Holm et al. write a journal called Networks and Cooperation in International Business In this work, Holm et al. discuss the implications of cross company cooperation and how relationship development is done through co-ops and strategic intervention. In this situation, Big Brothers Big Sisters of Tampa would be starting and improving relations with the Zeta Omicron Chapter of Alpha Sigma Phi, which could bring about benefits such as an influx of volunteers. On top of that, improving relations with an organization at USF could bring about a presence on campus. Anca Francisca Cruceru and Violeta Radulescu wrote a journal called, Succesului de Marketing Prin Orientarea Strategica a Organizatiei/Achieving Marketing Success Through Strategic Orientation of the In this article, Cruceru and Radulescu discuss the importance of radical and new methods for marketing success (31). By engaging with the Zeta Omicron Chapter of Alpha Sigma Phi, Big Brothers Big Sisters of Tampa could market themselves by sponsoring the chapter, by having the chapter advertise through the sale of merchandise and by openly partnering with the chapter on philanthropies as well as other charitable events. This goes back to the article that Cruceru and Radulescu write because engagement in a student rights issue such as this would be very risky, but would bring about a lot of positive publicity for the organization. In short, there are sizable benefits to engagement. Engagement in the conflict is quite simple. By meeting with the Zeta Omicron Chapter with representatives, Big Brothers Big Sisters of Tampa could discuss negotiating with USF OFSL on the issue, and could openly advocate for equal rights for all students on campus, while keeping the Zeta Omicron best interests in mind. This in short would allow the Zeta Omicron Chapter of Alpha Sigma Phi to make strides in resolving the issue with USF OFSL, by showing support in numbers as well as increased awareness. The Zeta Omicron Chapter of Alpha Sigma Phi has been attacked by the University of South Florida Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life. By being restricted in terms of what positions members of the Zeta Omicron Chapter can take, these students are being restricted from personal growth socially as well as growth in terms of leadership and work ethic. If Big Brothers Big Sisters of Tampa were to intervene and aid the Zeta Omicron Chapter, there would be increased positive relations between the two organizations, as well as progress towards conflict resolution. To sum it up, it is imperative that Big Brothers Big Sisters of Tampa step in and aid the Zeta Omicron Chapter of Alpha Sigma Phi, for all students on campus to have equal rights when it comes to student leadership. (Word Count: 1463) Works Cited Big Brothers Big Sisters of America, http://www.bbbs.org/about-us/. Accessed 2 May 2017. Mission, and Alpha Sigma Phi, http://alphasigmaphi.org/vision-mission-and- purpose. Accessed 20 April, 2017. Cruceru, Anca F., and Violeta Radulescu. Atingerea Succesului De Marketing Prin Orientarea Strategica a organizatiei/Achieving Marketing Success through Strategic Orientation of the  Romanian Journal of Marketing, no. 4, 2012, pp. 25-32, ABI/INFORM Collection, https://search.proquest.com/docview/1416787944?accountid=14745. Hilliard, Ann T. Student Leadership at the  Journal of College Teaching and Learning, vol. 7, no. 2, 2010, pp. 93-97, ABI/INFORM Collection; ProQuest Social Sciences Premium Collection, https://search.proquest.com/docview/218888073?accountid=14745. Accessed 20 April, 2017. Holm, Desiree et al. Networks and Cooperation in International Business Journal of International Business Studies, Vol. 27, No. 5, 1996, pp. 1033- 1053, Global Perspectives on Cooperative Strategies, 0000.pdf. Accessed 2 May 2017. Pawelski, James O. as Ethical Democracy: Definitions and Journal of College and Character, vol. 5, no. 9, 2004, pp. 1-43, tandfonline, http://www.tandfonline.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/abs/10.2202/1940- 1639.1398#aHR0cDovL3d3dy50YW5kZm9ubGluZS5jb20uZXpwcm94eS5saWIudXNm LmVkdS9kb2kvcGRmLzEwLjIyMDIvMTk0MC0xNjM5LjEzOTg/bmVlZEFjY2Vzcz10 cnVlQEBAMA==. Accessed 20 April, 2017. Ross, Stanley. Conceptual Model for Understanding the Process of Self-Leadership Development and Action-Steps to Promote Personal Leadership Journal of Management Development, Vol. 33 no. 4, 2014, pp.299-323, Emerald Insight, http://www.emeraldinsight.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/pdfplus/10.1108/JMD-11-2012- 0147. Accessed 20 April, 2017.