Sharif 1 Mahir Sharif Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 11 April 2017 A lower drinking age would be unsafe It is not always easy to see people s drinking line has crossed from moderate stage to a addicted stage. Alcohol is r esponsible for death of 88,000 of people around the world. Nowadays drinking is classified as a drug . Many people in the world got easily addicted to it which is the major problem. However, taking small amounts of drinking is perfectly fine and in some cases, it healthy. On the other h and, drinking in large amount can ca use serious health problems . Starting from high class people to low class people everyone consume alcohol. It became a social thing to drink at the parties too. Since alcohol can be a poison if consume excessively now the question remains should the drink age be a bove or below 21. National youth rights and Fraternity organizations wants to lower the drinking age but due to its harmful affects a nonengaged car organization such as Toyota should also support not to lo wer the drinking age. There are a lot of reason why alcohol age limit should remain 21. Alcohol causes serious effect on organs mostly on the kidneys and liver. Moreover, teenagers and the people who are under 21 their brains are under deve lop tha n the adult so it effects them more because teenage brain that has been exposed to alcohol is at risk for being smaller in certain parts. Alcohol also effects the memory and so they have difficulties in thinking. Moreover, in USA 56% of drivers 15 to 20 years of age who were killed in motor - vehicle crashes after drinking and driving were not wearing a seat belts. Also, studies show teens those who drinks Sharif 2 take other substances such as weed. Students also having problems with studies for those who ta ke alcohol than those who not. Furthermore, under 21 drinking can cause teens to have unprotected sex with people, they can also be the victims for sexual assault. Stakeholders from scientific, medical, and public health organizations have joined MADD to f orm the Support 21 Coalition. They believe that after drinking aged changed to 21 from 18 death rates significantly fell and it also reduce the risk of car accidents in the streets. Research shows that the alcohol effected teen brain and the way their mind s worked as well. MADD is a noncommercial organization which is in Canada and in United States. It was formed 36 years ago, in 1980. Its main objective is to prevent people driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs. Also, to help innocent people who become the victims in these deadly crimes. One of their major goal is to prevent underage drinking. Also, if 18 year old are allowed to drink then the 16 year old teens can get access to alcohol and they can also drink too. However, Toyota Motor C ompany is the Largest automaker by volume. In 1937 it was established in Japan. In 2016 Toyota reported strong revenues of 28.4 trillion Japanese yen, which is 3.4% higher than its revenues of 27.2 trillion yen in fiscal 2015. The mission statement of Toyo ta is To attract and attain customers with high - valued products and services and the most satisfying ownership experience in  . Toyota has good brand image and high brand loyalty. So if it advertises and suppor t not to lower the drinking age , it w ill motivate customers not to drink for those who are under 21.Thus reducing drunk driving and car accidents. Sharif 3 On the other side a lot of people support lowering the drinking age. The stakeholder here is the local law enforcements and other authori ties. It talks about how students would not be binge drinking and most alcohol related casualties would decrease if the drinking age is lowered. This is a positive thing for the stakeholders because they must deal with less alcohol related issues. There ar e also association The National Youth Rights Association strongly supports lowering the drinking age. At the age of 18 teens are considered as adults and they have proper adult trail and they can also have driving license so they can also have alcohol too because they are considered as adults. Also in a lot of countries such as Europe they allow drinking after the age of 18. People also say that if drinking age is lowered then they can have drinks with their parents and they can lear n to drink responsibly.A lso 18 year old can vote so they can drink too. People also say that drinking age can be 18 because of binge drinking. Binge drinking happens because when people drink too much and get intoxicated. It is because 18 years old people cannot buy alcohol so th ey when they have the chance they drink a lot. Also in the F raternity, everyone get access to Alcohol. So one way or the other people can drink Alcohol. Also, they are a lot of parties that the teens can get into and can drink alcohol to the fullest. Just because they cannot drink legally in the bar so they have to go to the illegal parties to get alcohol. After the age of 18 they can sign up for war in the army and can give their life away for their country so they should also have the right to drink. Also , the 18 - year - old people can have easy access of Alcohol from the people since they have can be in the same institute. The debate of lowering the drinking age has been a hot topic among the youth, with people leaning more towards 18 being the cutoff point and there are some truths to this argument; Anyone under 21 sees alcohol as a The curiosity leads to more people under the age of 21 drinking anyway. If drinking is made legal for the 18 and older, it will serve much better as the curios ity as high Sharif 4 and the fruit forbidden anymore. Peer pressure is another factor in why the drinking age should be lowered, college students are often pressured to drink as a method of initiation and social gathering activities often surrounded the aspect of drinking. Countries such as Italy, China, Greece are some of the countries where the legal drinking age is lower and they seem to have fewer alcohol related problems. Current law in terms of legal drinking age has caused more alcohol related dea ths than there has ever been. According to a study, 22% of all students under 21 compared to 18% over 21 years of age are heavy drinkers. Among drinkers only, 32% of underage compared to 24% of legal ager are heavy drinkers. If the legal drinking age were to be 18, colleges would be able to regulate alcohol use so students get overly intoxicated. They can be monitored whereas when they are hiding and drinking and hence intervention can be made. Since the F raternities and other organiz ation like Nat ion Youth rights supports underage drinking and these are risking the lives of those innocent underage people. Thus it is time for nonengaged stakeholder like Toyota to support not to lower the drinking age and to save their lives. Sharif 5 Work Cites: 1.Walters, Scott T. If the drinking age were lowered, what then? A view from the year  Journal of American College Health, May - June 2010, p. 579+. Academic OneFile 2.The Drinking Age: Should it remain at 21 or be lowered?. (2008). US NEWS AND WORL D REPORT, 145(6), 10. 3. MADD. against drunk Wikipedia. Date Accessed 26th February 2017. 4.MAAD, https://scontent - mia1 - 1.xx.fbcdn.net/v/t34.0 - 12th March 2017. 5MAAD, http://www.madd.org/about - us/history/interactive - timeline.png. 12th March 2017 . 6.DeSimone, Jeff. Fraternity Membership and Binge  Journal of Health Economics , vol. 26, 01 Jan. 2007, pp. 950 - 967. EBSCO host , doi:10.1016/j.jhealeco.2007.01.003. 7. John Parker, May 27, 2016 11:48 am EDT . http://marketrealist.com/2016/05/overview - nee d - know - toyota - motor - corporation