Nguyen 1 Thuan Hoang Nguyen Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.909 21 April 2017 Stand Against Hatred The world has never been quiet, due to all kind of hates that keep growing. This world is filled with discrimination, stereotyping, and hate, where everyone is being conditioned to hate and is showing a lack of tolerance towards each other. In the modern world, hatred is spreading rapidly due to the updates from media, which keeps shifting the information to change belief. Moreover, the cognition of mankind is gullible so people easily fall into the trap of media. Hatred is a natural feeling that is generated within the evolution of humans. Basically, hatred is evolved with the environment that people are living in. Nowadays, what most people have to deal with when they reach out to the world is social psychology, which simply is behavior that associate with prejudice, intergroup hostility and aggressive behavior (Harrington 1). In the world of hate, Lockheed Martin, a global security and aerospace company, should be the one company that promote about collaboration and communication between mankind, when it wants to stop war. Moreover, Lockheed Martin can donate to charities that provide education to the less fortunate areas, so that they can put an end to hate crimes across the globe. Since the world is a multicultural place, so individuals or groups look at the world differently. Basically, the problem of hate can be generated by the differences in the perspective of different groups. According to Jacobs, the author of The Journal of Hate Studies, he mentioned that there is a set of behaviors within any religious community, as this is also true to any race (Jacobs 225). Moreover, to be characterized as moral or ethical, the members must Nguyen 2 follow that set of behaviors, which consists the series of guidelines. The research also showed that there is a mix of positive and negative behaviors when it came across the members in a group and the outsiders. Additionally to research, against worshipping other gods have led to intolerance, hatred, and even destruction of those who have other religious (Brook par.4). Basically, when a belief system is challenged, the fight or flight response is triggered to overcome the challenges. Furthermore, hate is generated when a group of powerful people is directing a group of non-power people. Dr. Phillip Zimbardo conducted an experiment, which was the The experiment was conducted in 1971, and was focusing on the struggle between prisoners and prison guards, which college students were paid to role-play. It was used to show that appearance affects on perception, and also people with differences would stand up against each other to defend their opinions. Admittedly, there are authorities to keep the world in peace, but hatred comes from the differences in the perspective of human about the world. Thus, the problem of hate can be defined as the disagreement between different individuals, where one has different perspective to another. In the modern world, technologies are used to protect and fight against the hatred. Lockheed Martin is engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration and sustainment of advanced technology systems, products and We Although Lockheed Martin is a manufacturer of weapon and machinery, it can help push away hatred by sponsoring some charities that provide education to the miserable areas. Nowadays, due to the lack of understanding, people already acted to show that they hated each other. Generally, the actions of hate are usually negative and the outcomes are ugly. From verbally to physically, mankind has shown that they cannot stand with each other. Human hate Nguyen 3 each other on many levels and the attacks or terrorists showed it. One suggested solution to this is that, according to Ros Wynne, author of the article Hope Over Hate, she stated, we think about how to respond to the Paris killings, we should look at how the people behind the attacks want us to respond. And do the (Wynne par.6). People should think about how the terrorists want them to respond and do different to that thinking, so that terrorists fail to achieve their goal. Furthermore, hate is still there since extremists keep planning big attacks not to show the disagreement, but to spread fear among the world (Starling par.2). The extremists are people who want to world peace so they keep bringing fear, anguish, and hate to the whole world. Spreading fear by using hate actions, extremists do not want the world to stay in peace. Maya Angelou once said that has caused a lot of problems in the world, but it has not solved one so applying hate onto hate seems like a bad idea, since it will provoke for more hate, and might become and endless war of hate. Lockheed Martin can keep selling weapons and aircrafts to other countries for their protection, but the hate will keep going on due to the endless trading of hatred. However, by providing education to the young generation, the hatred can be push away from mankind. Instead of fighting back with hate, people can stop the hate with peaceful actions. Instead of curing hate, people should think about preventing hate. Lockheed Martin must step in by providing education to young generations about peace and love, so that the world will become a better place. In this world of hate, Lockheed should get involved in connecting people, which is to increasing communication between mankind so that they will keep the world in peace. Lockheed Martin is a well-known manufacturer so that it can easily raise awareness of the society, by uniting them and preaching about this sort of behavior (Webster par.1). Since children are the young generation, who easily absorb and imitate the surrounding environment into their meaning Nguyen 4 systems, so every individual can get involved by creating nonjudgmental environment for their children. This can easily be done in the place where the environment where adults are committed in changing the world a better place, where people can start to build and develop nonjudgmental environments for their children. However, there are still kids that being raised in the environment that contains full of violence, abuse, and stress. As Emily Burr mention in her article, Why Do We Hate?, children from these environments may become adults who underreact to threats, including societal punishments. These are the children who can become violent sociopaths with no empathy for their victims and no fear of any (Burr 1). In other words, these kids are more likely to develop to perceived threats with violence, fear, and hatred. Yet, Lockheed Martin can donate or sponsor charities that provide education to these. Moreover, the company can keep selling their weapons for other countries to fight against hate, and still get profit from it. Lockheed Martin small action will make a big change for the world, where love triumphs over hate. In conclusion, hate is a global problem, which causes many troubles to the world and not solving anything. In order to prevent hate problems, every individual should come together and accept each other despite differences. Moreover, Lockheed Martin, a global security and aerospace company, can help by educating the young generations about peace and love; also donate and sponsor the charities that provide education to those miserable areas. After all, hate is a problem that cannot be pushed away, but it can be faded from the society, where everyone unite, collaborate, and communicate with each other. Hate can never be ceased to exist, but hate problems can be overcome by the power of unity, peace, and love. Nguyen 5 Works Cited Brooks, Roger. do we hate each Society for the Advancement of Education. vol 122. no. 2586, 1994 pp.40-43. USF Libraries. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?vid=3&sid=db82fd9c- 8bc8-4cbe-9e8e- 37c6d9387c66@sessionmgr4008&hid=4202&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU=#db=e dsgao&AN=edsgcl.14995090 Accessed date 3 May 2017. Burr, Emily. Why Do We  05 July 06. http://www.kuufnh.org/whyhate.htm Accessed 21 April 2017. Harrington, Evan R. The Social Psychology of  Journal of Hate Studies 34th ser. vol. 3 no. 1, 2003/2004 pp.49-82. USF Libraries. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=1&sid=63338 d2d-8b48-4180-9372-dd8e600f9ab3%40sessionmgr4006&hid=4205 Accessed 21 April 2017. Jacobs, Steven Leonard. Genocidal  Journal of Hate Studies 15th ser. vol. 9 no. 1, 2010/2011 pp. 221-35. USF Libraries. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=3&sid=63338 d2d-8b48-4180-9372-dd8e600f9ab3%40sessionmgr4006&hid=4205 Accessed 21 April 2017. Who We  Lockheed Martin. http://www.lockheedmartin.com/us/who-we-are.html Accessed date 03 May 2017. Nguyen 6 Starling, Boris. We Stop Terrorist Attacks. The Only Sane Response Is to Accept That They Will  The Telegraph. Telegraph Media Group, 16 Nov. 2015. http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/islamic-state/11997908/We-cant-stop- terrorist-attacks.-The-only-sane-response-is-to-accept-that-they-will-happen.html Accessed 21 April 2017. Wynne, Ros. We can fight back by choosing hope over  Mirror. Business Insights: Essentials. 17 Nov. 2015. http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/we-can-fight-back-after- 6844583 Accessed 21 April 2017. Webster, Catriona. Society must pull together to fight hate crime, say  Herald. Business Insights: Essentials. 24 Sept. 2016 http://www.pressreader.com/uk/the- herald/20160924/textview Accessed 21 April 2017. Zimbardo, Philip G. Lucifer Effect: Understanding How Good People Turn New York : Random House, 2007. Print.