Kolman 1 Elle Kolman Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.078 21 April 2017 Super Moms Children are the future of the world, therefore crucial they receive the knowledge and tools in order to better the world for the generations to come and the best way to achieve that is through mothers. Blue Zones Project acquires the knowledge and the skills necessary to transform the lives of people. BZP works with cities around the United States in order to create healthier environments for people and to spread the knowledge of how to live a nutritious and happy life. Aaron Patnode, the executive director of Blue Zones Project in Oregon describes the organization as, a collaborative effort and set of actions that help individuals, organizations and communities make small but lasting changes that better support healthy options and (Bernard). By targeting mothers at Tampa Bay Moms Group, Blue Zones Project will be able to fulfill their goals by not only transforming their lives but also the lives of their children and ergo descendants to come. Tampa Bay Moms Group, an organization of mothers that stay connected through activities, events and social media, would greatly benefit from a happier, healthier life and family through the use of Blue Zones expertise. Blue Zones Project is an organization that has already helped thousands of families through the transformation of cities into health promoting environments. The organization was founded on the research findings of National Geographic, longevity experts from the National Institute of Aging and author and explorer Dan Buettner. Together this dream team studied five Kolman 2 places in the world defined as Blue Zones or limited region where the population shares a common lifestyle and environment and whose exceptional longevity has been accurately (Poulain et al). They spent ten years studying what traits these five places, located in Italy, California, Japan, Greece and Costa Rica, had in common. After researching, they discovered nine characteristics consistently found throughout each area that are scientifically linked to their longevity. These traits include moving naturally, having a purpose, relaxing, the 80% rule, drinking moderately, connecting with the community, putting loved ones first, surrounding yourself with positive influences, and eating a mainly plant based diet. In a study focused on the Blue Zone, Ikaria in Greece, percent of the participants reported engaged in various types of daily physical activities (ie, fishing, walking, gardening, (Chrysohoou et al 545). Most of the participants reported that they consume a nutritional pattern close to the Mediterranean diet, that is, rich in fruits, vegetables, legumes, fish, and they drink 1 or 2 glasses of wine (Chrysohoou et al 545). Researchers found that the healthiest people run marathons or even join gyms they move naturally through walking around town, gardening or other everyday activities (Buettner, Having a purpose is linked to up to 7 years of extra life expectancy (Buettner, Downshifting is crucial in keeping disease low in Blue Zones as stress is associated with every major age related disease (Buettner, The 80% Rule refers to a confucian saying, Hachi recited before every Japanese meal to remind themselves to finish eating when they are 80% full so that they do not overeat (Buettner, In Blue Zones many residents have a glass of wine with dinner or friends, as it is found that moderate drinkers or people who enjoy one drink a day actually live longer than Kolman 3 nondrinkers as it aids in lowering stress (Buettner, Connecting to the community is shown to add 4-14 years of life expectancy (Buettner, Prioritizing love ones is linked to lower disease and mortality rates in children as well as up to 3 years of extra life expectancy (Buettner, In Blue Zones, it was found that having supportive peers that have similar goals and healthy behaviors is crucial for a healthy life (Buettner, Surrounding oneself with positive influences is important as people tend to pick up eating, exercise and thinking habits of friends. In the past, BZP experts have teamed up with cities to construct outlets for everyday activity, better employee health care plans, as well as easier and cheaper access to healthier foods in many states including Hawaii, Texas and more (Healthways). Blue Zones Project have the necessary expertise and facts needed to transform environments into health promoting atmospheres. Tampa Bay Moms Group is a local group of moms in Tampa that would be able to utilize Blue Zones Projects facts and tips in their own lives and families. This organization is creation of moms who just wanted a way to connect with each other for support, events and real relationships. Motherhood is hard but it should never be lonely and moms at their core are all the We want best for our children and that unites (Rodriguez-Neely et al). Overall Tampa Bay Moms Group is designed for moms to stay connected and help each other through life especially when it comes to their children. Endless information is shared between the women of this group ranging everywhere from local activities, events, restaurants, shops, schools, vacation spots, health and fitness tips etc (Rodriguez-Neely et al). Anything that this group may lack, can still be addressed by the opportunity to ask other moms in the group as these women are connected through social media as well as through events and activities throughout Kolman 4 Tampa. There are many forums, articles, events and more related to a wide variety of aspects of life that these women connect over. This group provides these women with the opportunity to join with one another and experience the ups and downs of motherhood together while also sharing information. Together this group of supermoms unite and make the most of their lives and of their crucial roles as mothers. Blue Zones Projects and Tampa Bay Moms Group both share the need to nurture and help stimulate growth. Blue Zones Project does this on a large scale by slowly, city by city, giving Americans what they need to beat chronic illnesses and live long, fulfilling lives such as, cheaper, easier access to nutritious foods and health care. However, Tampa Bay Moms Groups not only nurture and encourage growth in their kids but also in one another by acting as a force of positive influences for one another. In addition, both organizations recognize the importance of community and family. Blue Zones Project has already influenced 31 communities, 1,685 organizations, and over two million lives Secrets To Living Better Are All Around a project conducted in Albert Lea, Minnesota, average life expectancy was increased by 3.1 years along with a decrease in obesity and health care costs and an increase of everyday activity (Brink). In a Finnish town, Physician Pekka Puska lead a team that aided in decreasing cardiovascular disease by 80% by holding where a member of team would give a short talk encouraging them to replace butter with oil, meat with vegetables, cut salt, and stop (Buettner, Finnish With the knowledge of Blue Zones Projects, Tampa Bay Moms Group would be able to focus more energy on the pivotal aspects of a healthy life found in Blue Zones such as a mainly plant based diet, 80% rule, relaxing etc. therefore changing their lives forever. Kolman 5 Blue Zones Project would greatly benefit from the participation of Tampa Bays Moms Group because by informing mothers they will be able to transform the lives of families and create healthy habits that will hopefully pass down following generations. With this kind of spreading of information, over time healthy routines may finally become common knowledge, which would drastically raise life expectancy and lower disease. Tampa offers many opportunities to recreate characteristics of Blue Zones including events, restaurants, markets, parks, preserves, churches and more. Tampa Bay Moms Group needs to join forces with Blue Zones Project in order to greatly benefit each organization. Tampa Bay Moms directors would first need to upload links onto their website that leads members to Blue Zones website and all the vital health information from Blue Zones. Then they would need to organize an event for the members of their groups to come with their families and learn more about Blue Zones. After the event, families can pledge to live a Blue Zone inspired life. They can achieve this by utilizing the plethora of parks, preserves and trails to move naturally as well as plant a garden. Planting a garden would also give them access to healthier foods and could also serve as an opportunity for quality family time. In addition, there are many healthy produce places and restaurants around Tampa for them to choose from. For example, health food Co-Ops such as Neighborhood Produce Co-Op, which provide fresh, local produce at lower costs to buyers, and some even deliver. Also there are restaurants such as Fruitwood or Boca in Tampa, that focus on creating delicious menus with nutritious ingredients. TBMG could also work on getting their kids involved in sports and school activities to ensure their child is getting a healthy social and active life. Also, they could downshift by going to the beach such as Clearwater Beach or Kolman 6 Madeira Beach or reading a book. Parents can enjoy a glass of wine or beer at dinner, improving their health while also showing responsible drinking habits to their children. At least once a month or so a fun event could be put on by the group based on one or more of the nine characteristics of Blue Zones, such as healthy cooking class or yoga class in order to keep their members informed and engaged. TBMG could become even more engaged by spreading the secrets to longevity to friends and family as well as school too. Tampa Bay Moms Groups must get involved with Blue Zone Projects in order to transform the lives of their family and generations to come. Blue Zones Project is designed to impact the lives of people like those in Tampa Bay Moms Group. Through collaboration between the two organizations, both Blue Zones Project and Tampa Bay Moms Group would greatly benefit from personal success as well as the spread of healthy habits. By getting involved through pledging to live by the fundamental health tips discovered in Blue Zones such as eating a mainly plant based diet and moving naturally, the quality and quantity of the lives of the moms and families in Tampa Bay Moms Group will increase tremendously. Kolman 7 Works Cited Bernard, Erin J. Blocks for Oregon Business, Vol. 39, Issue 4, Regional Business 2016, eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?sid=2116362a-5ec8-4cfd-aab9- 829b56323d24%40sessionmgr101&vid=0&hid=113&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdm U%3d#AN=115059301&db=bwh. Accessed May 3 2017. Brink, Susan. A Health  News and World Report, Vol. 147 No. 7, Academic 2010, eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?sid=d68d2dab-be3f-4f93-8c3af cb6da87ecb5%40sessionmgr102&vid=1&hid=127&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU %3d#AN=edsgcl.236585890&db=edsgao. Accessed 21 April 2017. Buettner, Dan. Finnish Town That Went On A Atlantic. The Atlantic Monthly 2015, www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2015/04/finlands-radical-heart-health-transformation /389766/. Accessed 21 April 2017. Buettner, Dan. Engineering 2016, www.bluezones.com/2016/11/power-9/. Accessed 21 April 2017. Chrysohoou, Christina et al. Ikaria Study of the Blue Vol. 67, Issue 6, pp. 541-548, Academic 2016 Accessed May 3 2017. Kolman 8 Healthways. HMSA and Healthways Launch Blue Zones Project to Improve the Well-Being of Hawaii  Wire, Regional Business News 2014, eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?sid=37637e3d-7d8b-4925- 94c1- 6661e3e54dbd%40sessionmgr103&vid=4&hid=127&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdm U%3d#AN=bizwire.c57191016&db=bwh. Accessed 21 April 2017. Poulain, Michel, et al. Blue Zones: Areas of Exceptional Longevity around the Vienna Yearbook of Population 11, 2013, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/43050798. Accessed 21 April 2017. Rodriguez-Neely, Steffany et al. Bay Moms Group. Tampa Bay Moms 2016, www.tampabaymomsgroup.com. Accessed 21 April 2017. Secrets Of Living Longer, Better Are All Around Zones Project, Healthways www.bluezonesproject.com/. Accessed 21 April 2017.