Orie 1 Shamon Orie Sarah Basil Composition 2 16 April 2017 What they want you to know about steroids Have you ever watched television and an advertisement commercial popped up on the screen that tried to sell an item? The advertisement video was probably a few seconds long but majority of the advertisement video most likely highlighted only the positive qualities the items had. Towards the end of the video, the negative information they wanted disclosed was listed for a very short period of time. The media goes on tangents about the positives in an item but the downfall that the item can lead to is often overlooked or not even talked about. This same issue is being seen in the world of steroids, individuals use steroids in the hopes of having beach bodies and super human strength. When individuals see people, who use steroids, the naked eye is trapped on their impressive appearance and their ability to lift substantial amounts of weight. At a glance steroids seem like a one-way ticket to easy success but the negative aspects of steroid use are greatly hidden. This is important within the USF community, because most college students are big on working out and steroids are easily accessible for them. Keeping in mind that college students may partake in steroid usage is alarming because many students know little about the negative effects of steroids. Due to so much disclosed information on steroids it is important that individuals are educated, engaged, and empowered in all there is to know about steroids. Orie 2 To begin with, Anabolic  is the familiar name for synthetic substances related to the male sex hormones. They promote the growth of skeletal muscle and the development of male sexual characteristics in both males and females (What are anabolic steroids 1). The effects of taking steroids results in muscle growth which results in impressive muscle sizes when combined with working out. Often women who are bodybuilders have very masculine appearances and deep voices because steroids also enhance male characteristics. Steroids alone give you ripped abdominal muscles or massive arms, it instead greatly enhances the chances of achieving these physical aspirations alongside with working out consistently. The initial purpose for steroids were not for impressive athletic appearances instead they were intended for medical purposes. In fact, steroids were developed in the late 1930s primarily to treat hypogonadism, a condition in which the testes do not produce sufficient testosterone for normal growth, development, and sexual functioning. The primary medical uses of these compounds are to treat delayed puberty, some types of impotence, and wasting of the body caused by HIV infection or other (What are anabolic steroids 1). Even though, using steroids can result in ideal body goals, because they were intended for medical purposes only, using them for other purposes can result in very unpleasant outcomes. The health issues that come with the usage of steroids and other drugs are severe. Side effects of steroids consist of hair loss, shrinking of testicles, depression or suicidal tendencies, bad breath, high blood pressure and many more side effects (Anabolic Steroids - Abuse, Side Effects and Safety1). Men can also develop breast, get painful erections, become infertile, decreased sperm count, become impotent, and their testicles can shrink (DeNoon). As a male, later in life, is important to have a family, but steroids can go as far as taking away this dream. Females are also at risk when taking steroids, they can grow excessive face and body hair, have their voices deepened, experience enlarged clitorises, have Orie 3 reduced breast sizes, and have a masculine female fetus (DeNoon 2). Beauty and appearance are imperative in a life and looking and sounding like a man can make a woman feel extremely uncomfortable with herself. Although men and women may endure separate side effects when using steroids, they are both prone to get acne, become bald, have tendon rupture, have heart attacks, have an enlarged heart, develop significant risk of liver disease and liver cancer, have high levels of  cholesterol, have mood swings, fly into rages, and suffer delusions (DeNoon 2). There is little discussed about the negative effects of steroids but the effects they have on the human body are server and can be life changing. It is important to be fully educated on steroids and understand how much of an impact they can have on a life both positive and negative. Furthermore, it is important to be fully be aware about all there is to know about steroids because it can affect a friend, a love one and any individual at any age. Steroids can be used by athletes, individuals who go to the gym, and everyday people. Steroids are not hard to get a hold of so staying aware on the effects they have on a well-being is imperative. It is important to know about steroids because a life is at risk. Not only are adults using steroids but steroids are making their way in the lives of teenagers as well. National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) estimates that more than a half million 8th and 10th grade students are now using these dangerous drugs, and increasing numbers of high school seniors believe steroids are (Steroid Abuse in Society 1). This is a sad statistic because this shows that young teens are using steroids and are unaware of the severe negative outcomes it could lead to. These young teens could have younger siblings and can set a negative example for their younger siblings and this could lead to even more young steroid users. Steroid usage has gone so far to even take the lives of teenage athletes. On July 15, 2003, 17- year-old, Taylor Hooton, a high school athlete from Plano, Texas took his own life away as a Orie 4 result of abusing steroids (Real Life: Student Battle with Steroid Abuse, Story 1). The rise in the usage of steroids in the world is alarming and if there is nothing done to limit the usage of steroid, there will be more sad stories such as Taylor Due to the increasing steroid use in the world it is important because it can affect any individual and anyone close to them. Henceforth, knowing how many people use steroids and hoe traumatic steroids can be on the human body, there should be something done to prevent more people from suffering the consequences of steroid usage. There are actions that can be taken to fight against the negative aspects of steroid usage. Individuals can work with or even donate money to organizations such as the Taylor Hooton Foundation. Taylor Hooton Foundation is a non-profit organization leading a national campaign to educate youth and their adult influencers about the dangers of Appearance and Performance Enhancing Drugs including anabolic steroids, HGH, and unregulated dietary (Taylor Hooton Foundation 1). By working with organizations such as the Taylor Hooton Foundation, this could help educate individual on steroids and greatly influence individuals not to use steroids. In result of working and donating money to organizations against steroid usage, this will gradually reduce the steroid usage intake and save lives. In conclusion, the growth in steroid usage is increasing at an alarming rate and it is negatively impacting the world. In order to change this, the USF community can write a petition and present it to Judy Genshaft, the president of USF. Having the support of the USF community is imperative because this can make a statement. Although this may be a small step, it is a great start and can have a great impact down the road. Orie 5 Work Cited Steroid Abuse in  Steroid Abuse - Steroid Abuse in Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Anabolic Steroids - Abuse, Side Effects and  Drugs.com. Drugs.com, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Abuse, National Institute on Drug. What Are Anabolic  NIDA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Real Life: Student Battle with Steroid Abuse,  NIDA for Teens. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. The Taylor Hooton  Taylor Hooton. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. DeNoon, Daniel J. Why Steroids Are Bad for  WebMD. WebMD, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.