Cain 1 Karina Cain Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.909 3 May 2017 Engaging with the Destructive Reality of Deforestation Every two seconds, an area of forests the size of a football field is destroyed Deforestation, the clearing of the forests on a massive scale and its Effects on the par. 1), is the practice accountable for this alarming rate of loss. Deforestation poses numerous detrimental effects on the environment, such as depletion of the oxygen reserve, loss of habitats and species, soil erosion, changes in climate and the water cycle, extreme temperature changes, and an increase in greenhouse gases and its Effects on the Although deforestation causes adverse effects as a whole, the technique chosen while cutting trees can lessen or worsen the consequences. Two of the most frequently used techniques are clear-cutting, which is when every single marketable tree is cut down from a selected area par. 1), and selective cutting, which is the cutting down of selected trees in a forest so that growth of other trees is not affected Glossary of Statistical Amid the issue, are ironically those who are unengaged with the problem at hand. One company in particular, is a prime example of an entity that is not connected with the global issue of deforestation. is a fast food restaurant chain founded in 1955, which has become the leading global foodservice retailer with thousands of restaurants in more than one hundred countries around the world Overview and Segment par. 1). As a part of their mission, claims they are of Cain 2 the way [they creating an experience to remember: reaching customers wherever they are and innovating new tastes and choices, while staying true to customer The loss of forests is a worldwide matter which affects all lives equally, which is why it is critical for every entity to be completely tuned into the issue. Deforestation is a global issue due to its numerous adverse effects on the entirety of the environment, which is why all unengaged entities like must become aware and proactive regarding the topic. would benefit from their involvement by expanding the extent of their mission statement as well as gaining a greater customer basis, which can be achieved by providing more options to consumers regarding paper products and advocating against unsustainable deforestation practices. Deforestation is a severe issue that continuously compromises the state of the environment with a large array of consequences, which must be controlled by the rate that the practice occurs and the technique used. The effects of deforestation on the environment can be dramatic, such as with changes in climate. In a research article, the effects of deforestation on climate change are investigated (Beltrami 1-34). The report initially confirms that deforestation is associated with increased atmospheric carbon dioxide, as well as alterations to the surface energy and mass balances that can lead to local and global climate changes (Beltrami 1-2). The experiment examined the effects of removing fractions of 5% to 100% of forested areas in the high, mid-, and low latitudes. This major findings include that high-latitude deforestation leads to cooling proportional to the deforested area and removing trees in low-latitudes causes warming (Beltrami 24-31). Mid-latitude deforestation showed that intermediary deforestation fractions caused warming and larger fractions caused cooling (Beltrami 25-28). In all the Cain 3 simulations, deforested areas tended to become drier and have lower surface air temperature (Beltrami 7-20). In another article, a study is detailed, which investigates the effect of forest loss on biodiversity and, more specifically, on eating behavior (Arroyo-Rodriguez 3315-3325). The researchers use the fact that the rate of insect herbivory depends on forces from both directions: bottom-up, such as available resources to the insects and the defense mechanisms plants have to protect them from insects, and top-down, such as the number of predators and herbivores within the forest. Thus, the number of insects heavily relies on the presence of many other organisms within a habitat. Some of the significant results from this article include the direct effect of leaf damage increasing with forest loss, as well as the indirect effect of leaf damage increasing with forest loss through a decrease in plant structure variability, which results in a dominance of herbivorous insects (Arroyo-Rodriguez 3322). There was also a lack of top-down control of herbivores by predators. The final conclusion was that forest loss favors insect herbivory (Arroyo-Rodriguez 3323). Ultimately, this study demonstrates how forest loss has a domino effect on organisms with close relationships, harming all of those that closely interact. The effects of deforestation would be less dramatic as people collectively move away from harvesting trees for luxury needs. If tree harvesting was limited to timber collection only for necessary consumption, the rate of tree removal and its harmful consequences would decrease. Furthermore, the technique used for deforestation, particularly clear-cutting or selective cutting, is crucial. Clear-cutting is a process where loggers remove all trees from a particular site and the ground is left bare, while selective cutting is a process where loggers choose particular trees, based on size, quality, or at random, to cut and leave the rest of the forest intact. From another study, the consequences of using clear-cutting as a deforestation technique Cain 4 are further investigated (Hseu 1-12). The study provides an estimation of erosion potential after clear-cutting by performing measurements of the soil properties in abruptly clear-cut coastal areas. The major results for this experiment indicated that the soil erosion rates ranged from 21 to 249 tons per hectare per year and the eroded soil depths ranged from 0.30 to 3.40 centimeters per year after clear-cutting (Hseu 4-6). At least three specific species were identified as likely to be susceptible to damage from the substantial amount of soil loss and low soil organic carbon (SOC) content (Hseu 8-10). After clear-cutting, inadequate plant cover accelerated the soil erosion in the studied area (Hseu 8). The results indicate that soil erosion, low SOC content, and soil texture contributed to reducing the efficiency of indigenous plant restoration in the coastal areas (Hseu 10). As a whole, these three experiments demonstrate that deforestation has negative consequences overall and clear-cutting contributes to greater adverse effects than other techniques. The impacts deforestation poses on the environment can be decreased by slowing the rate of tree removal as well as refraining from unsustainable practices such as clear-cutting. is a multi-billion dollar fast food company with thousands of store locations found around the world. This fast food chain is best known for its golden arches, happy meals, and joyful clown mascot. It was first founded in 1955 by Ray Kroc as a small business centered on quality and quick service History and par. 5). quickly expanded and reached their 100 millionth burger sold by 1958. Over the years, they have continuously expanded to different locations and have added more options to their menu. On the official company website, expresses their current and prominent goals of customers wherever they as well as new tastes and They also strive to provide modern service and become personally engaged with their customers. Cain 5 Additionally, they show pride in their recognition for appetizing burgers and fries, which are two of the very few items the company was first founded on. The company also claims to continually build on their commitments to their people, communities, and world. Overall, is a successful franchise which strives to build relationships with its customers and the community worldwide, as well as provide cheerful and modern services. would benefit from engaging with the issue of deforestation through expanding the extent of their mission statement as well as gaining a larger customer base, and the campaign against deforestation would benefit through advocacy and support of a large corporation. As becomes more involved in the issue of deforestation, they will achieve more of the goals they claim in their mission statement. They will reach more people globally by working on a global issue. They will also provide more choices for consumers, which is also a goal indicated in their mission statement. Additionally, they will become more appealing to consumers concerned with the environment, which will increase the customer base. More people will become aware of the issue of deforestation through advocacy. Also, since is such a large franchise, its involvement in sustainable practices will cut down the impact the company has on the environment. Thus, both and the campaign for sustainable deforestation will benefit from connection with the issue. must become engaged with the issue of deforestation by providing alternatives to paper products for consumers as well as advocating sustainable deforestation practices. first step to becoming involved is to reduce their use of paper products. The company must begin offering an alternative for consumers to the many paper products they utilize, such as trays, cups, and boxes. This can be achieved by offering reusable and washable Cain 6 utensils for customers that dine inside the restaurant. These plates would be washed and reused by The company must also offer reusable products for customers. These consumers would purchase reusable cups or utensils from and receive a discount every time they use them within the store. The second step must achieve is to begin purchasing paper products originating from logging companies that only participate in selective cutting, which would significantly aid in the effort of reducing the negative consequences of deforestation. This is because the scale of negative impacts caused from deforestation is much larger for clear-cutting than selective cutting. For example, the addition of greenhouse gases, such as methane ), to the atmosphere is significantly higher when trees are harvested through clear-cutting. In a research article, an experiment investigating the long-term effects of clear-cutting and selective cutting on soil methane fluxes is detailed over ten continuous years (Bruggemann 2467-2475). The major findings from this experiment showed that clear-cutting significantly reduced the soil uptake by about 60% as compared to the control site (Bruggemann 2474). uptake in the first year after clear-cutting was three times lower than during the pre-harvest period. In contrast, selective cutting did not significantly reduce 4 uptake throughout the long-term measurement. The annual mean uptake rates were kilograms per hectare per year for the control, kilograms per hectare per year for the selectively cut site, and kilograms per hectare per year for the clear-cut site (Bruggemann 2469-2470). The findings imply that selective cutting contributes to mitigating global warming by maintaining a high uptake capacity of the soil. Overall, the choice of forest management affects the soil sink strength, with clear-cutting reducing uptake rates for at least eight years (Bruggemann 2471). In another article, a study explores the differences between the two key Cain 7 practices pertaining to their effects on biodiversity in tropical forests (Ding 1683-1691). In this study, a clear-cut forest and a selectively-cut forest were given forty years of natural recovery, and a forest with old growth was used as the control. It was concluded that the clear-cut forest had 70% the species richness of the large trees in the old growth forest, but the selectively-cut and old growth forests had similar species richness (Ding 1686). This implies that a clear-cut forest is not as complex and diverse as a selectively-cut one. Additionally, timber species that are typically high-value for logging companies had a lower abundance and base layer area of large trees in the clear-cut forest compared to the other two (Ding 1685). The study also concluded that the selectively-cut forest had a quicker recovery rate than the clear-cut forest (Ding 1687-1688). Overall, the selectively-cut forest was healthier and more similar than a clear-cut forest to an untouched forest after the same recovery time. Therefore, supporting only selective cutting is a significant step, which can be done by purchasing paper products only from sustainable logging companies such as Weyerhaeuser. This company not only utilizes sustainable practices like selective cutting, but also has goals of replanting large quantities of trees in an effort to remain as environmentally friendly as possible As a third and final step, must begin advocating sustainable deforestation through advertisement campaigns. This would not only help bring awareness to the deforestation issue, but it would also benefit by creating a more caring, green image of the company which would attract new customers. These three steps would significantly aid in the sustainable deforestation campaign by reducing impact on the environment as well as bringing a greater awareness to the issue around the world. Cain 8 The issue of deforestation is one of a global scale due to the numerous destructive effects it places on the environment as a whole. Although deforestation cannot be completely eliminated, the rate at which it occurs must decrease and only sustainable techniques, such as selective cutting, must be used. Due to deforestation being a global problem, it concerns all entities including individuals, groups, companies, and nations. The only way deforestation and its consequences can be significantly reduced is if all entities, especially larger ones, participate in working toward a more sustainable world. This is why all unengaged entities, such as must become aware of the severity of the issue as well as proactive toward the topic. will benefit from their involvement through expanding the extent of their mission statement by innovating new choices and reaching customers around the globe through their work. The company would also benefit through gaining a larger customer basis by gaining followers who are concerned with the environment. involvement can be achieved by providing more options to consumers regarding paper products, such as reusable boxes, cups, and trays. They will also become involved by advocating against unsustainable deforestation practices, which will be done by cutting back on paper products and only buying these products that are harvested from logging companies that only use selective cutting as a technique. As increasingly more companies like become involved with the issue, the concerns regarding deforestation will become better known to society collectively, more entities will reduce paper consumption and support only sustainable practices, and the harmful effects of tree removal will gradually decrease. As a collective whole, society holds the future quality of the environment in their hands. Cain 9 Works Cited Arroyo-Rodriguez, Victor., Deborah Faria, Madelon Lohbeck, Carlos Morante-Filho, and Teja Tscharntke. Forest Loss and its Multitrophic Effects on Insect Ecological Society of vol. 97, no. 12, Dec. 2016, pp. 3315-3325. Online Library. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Beltrami, Hugo., Michael Eby, Patrick Longobardi, and Alvaro Montenegro. Induced Climate Change: Effects of Spatial vol. 11, no. 4, Apr. 2016, pp. 1-34. <http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?vid=14&sid=68380460- d865-4540-aff5-b3051a1ac1c4%40sessionmgr4010&hid=4205&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWR zLWxpdmU%3d#db=aph&AN=114704471>. Accessed 11 Apr. 2017. Bruggemann, Nicolas., Klaus Butterbach-Bahl, Rainer Gasche, Hans Papen, Georg Willibald, and Xing Wu. Effects of Clear-cutting and Selective Cutting on Soil Methane Fluxes in a Temperate Spruce Forest in Southern vol. 159, no. 10, Oct. 2011, pp. 2467-2475. <http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S02697491110035 38>. Accessed 11 Apr. 2017. Overview and Segment <http://corporate.mcdonalds.com/mcd/investors/company-overview/company-overview-s egment-information.html>. Accessed 21 Apr. 2017. Cain 10 and its Effects on the <http://www.nationalgeographic.com/environment/global-warming/deforestation/>. Accessed 21 Apr. 2017. Ding, Yi., Jihong Huang, Xinghui Lu, and Runguo Zang. Impacts of Selective Logging and Clear-cutting on Woody Plant Diversity After 40 Years of Natural Recovery in a Tropical Montane Rain Forest, South of the Total vol. 579, 1 Feb. 2017, pp. 1683-1691. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0048969716326511>. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.earthroots.org/index.php/clearcutting-item>. Accessed 21 Apr. 2017. Hseu, Zeng-Yei., Shih-Hao Jien, Ming-Hsi Lee, and Hsiang-Hua Wang. Potential Estimation by Network Measurement of Soil Properties in Coastal Areas After Journal of Distributed Sensor vol 2015, June 2015, pp. 1-12. <http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?vid=9&sid=fb1699b8-5 c8e-403c-a014-d0526c060687%40sessionmgr120&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU %3d#db=aci&AN=109271875>. Accessed 11 Apr. 2017. Glossary of Statistical <https://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=2423>. Accessed 21 Apr. 2017. Accessed 21 Apr. 2017. Cain 11 History and <https://www.mcdonalds.com/us/en-us/about-us/our-history.html>. Accessed 21 Apr. 2017. Tree <https://onetreeplanted.org/pages/tree-facts>. Accessed 21 Apr. 2017. <http://www.weyerhaeuser.com/timberlands/forestry/sustainable-forestry/>. Accessed 2 May 2017.