Yasreeb 1 Ahmed Sadat Yasreeb Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 3 May 2017 All that looks yummy is not healthy Health is something which we all care for because if we become unhealthy we will be open to diseases, get lazy and get sick. Everyone wants to be healthy and fit, no one ever wants to compromise health before anything but did people ever think this deep about the food we consume? People no matter how much health conscious they are, they still love to eat junk food. Nowadays junk food companies such as McDonalds, Burger King are making a lot of profit because they are cheap and yummy according to people. Therefore, people love eating them as they are cheap and quick to eat. For example, McDonalds McPick2 is just for five dollars and we can get chicken nuggets and a quarter pounder burger with it. People love to get so many things in just five dollars but they never thought about the quality of the food which is just five dollars. People are ready to compromise their health to consume junk food. Likewise, large video content organizations such as Time Warner which has subsidiaries HBO or Home Box Office can be used to implement a positive effect on people to stop them from consuming the unhealthy junk foods. As being the subsidiary of Time Warner anything Time Warner does will affect HBO. If Time Warner telecast healthy food advertisements in HBO and displays the effects of junk foods in body, in their channel between television shows or television serials rather than displaying McDonalds advertisements then people will be more health conscious. As a result, junk food is bad for health and people should know about it, at the same time, Time Warner through HBO should broadcast more healthy advertisements which will increase their revenue Yasreeb 2 more as people will subscribe their channel more because they will be a channel who thinks health consciously (Minton 1). Junk food is so attractive and its appearance makes it more compelling to consume it. People should control their appetite about fast food because fast food can make them affected in lot of ways. Firstly, fast food will make people get fat and lazy, for example a McDonalds quarter pounder has around 600 to 1000 calories. People never imagine that they are just consuming so much calories in just one meal. After consuming a fast food there will be bad feeling in the body because these foods are of a lot of calories and are also made with the worst possible quality ingredients (Watkins 86). This is the reason why they are so cheap. At the same time people should also know that it just not alters our waistline but also affect our mental health. There has been a study where Spanish Scientists unraveled that 51 per cent people who consumes fast food they are more likely to suffer from depression compared to people who eat fast food. So, all depression, frustration and feeling dizzy, lazy, inactive are all related to our eating habits. Diseases can also affect people for being unhealthy, there can be food poisoning, diabetes, kidney diseases, heart disease, arthritis etc. All happens because excess calories and cholesterol makes our digestive system bad causing kidney and food poisoning and thickens our nerve vessels causing heart attacks. People get sick for these junk foods and have to fight with deadly diseases (Kuzma 1). Diabetes is a disease for lifetime so if people can control their eating habits they will be better off from getting fast and inactive, from a lot of diseases and depression. Organization such as Time Warner which is the largest cable company in the United States by revenue, it also broadcast television channels like HBO or WB etc (Time Warner 1). HBO or Home Box Office being the most popular subsidiary are always showing advertisements of McDonalds or Burger King or unhealthy food but they are non- Yasreeb 3 engaged here because they are not related with food. They do not understand that some family want their children to consume junk food or be always indulged in it. is one of the top viewed channels of USA and whatever television programs or TV series it broadcasts are viewed by millions of millions of (Higgins 1). is the most watched pay service in the U.S and it is also counted as the most premium television company. It broadcasts from series, films, miniseries, documentaries, championship boxing, concerts, Hollywood blockbusters and family (Home Box Office 1). Therefore, it is covering different age level people starting from children to adult rated films or series. So, it makes a huge amount of profit. also won a lot of awards and has around 28.7 million subscribers (Home Box Office 1). Their mission state is people and businesses with information, entertainment and each other. Give customers control in a way that are simple and (Home Box Office 1). Therefore, they are a very respectable and profitable television channel and everyone knows HBO also being the subsidiary of Time Warner so people find it very reliable. Being reliable a lot of junk food advertisements are regularly shown at intervals of television series or movies. Therefore, if HBO stops advertising the junk foods such as McDonalds and starts advertising healthy food and maintain healthy diet advertisements then HBO will be very profitable. The reason for this is because some people oppose junk food and they oppose it because they know the bad effects of junk food in our body. So if HBO starts showing healthy food advertisements then they will also get some more viewers or subscription who believe and maintain healthy food (Minton 1). For example, in China they maintain a healthy food diet so if HBO broadcasts healthy food advertisements then it will be more popular Yasreeb 4 in China also. Then overall the profitability of HBO will increase due to increase in subscriptions or viewers. Therefore, if HBO stops showing advertisements of junk food then junk food companies will stop growing and this will also make people slowly become less attractive to junk food companies. Thus, people will stop consuming junk food in this way. There has been an article written by Minton where he mentioned that people trust more on advertisements and they are basically persuaded through advertisements (141). Therefore, if HBO stops advertising junk foods then junk food companies will lose customers due to lack of advertisements (Minton 141). In the meanwhile, people will consume more and spend more on healthy food companies then the junk food companies will fail to maintain their revenue and people will stay more fit and healthy maintaining a healthy diet. As a result, people will also get less sick and stop fighting with deadly disease which may happen for consuming junk food (Kuzma 1). Thus, HBO can still be profitable like before as they will now be able to capture and become more popular in countries like China who maintains healthy diet and at the same time due to lack of advertisements people will be less persuaded to consume junk food so people will stay healthier. In the end, Junk foods are bad for health and can cause a lot of diseases and suffer people with depression. So, if people maintain their eating habits, they can avoid a lot of bad diseases and live a healthy fit life. On the other hand, if television channel HBO stop advertising junk food then people will stop consuming junk food and at the same time HBO will be profitable as they can advertise healthy diet and capture more market share and popularity in countries which maintains healthy eating habits. So eventually slowly people can stay away from junk food and enjoy a peaceful healthy life because health is wealth. 1442 words Yasreeb 5 Work cites Home Box Office, Time Warner Inc., TimeWarner . Date Accessed: 30 th April 2017. http://www.timewarner.com/company Higgins, M, John. Top 25 TV  The Business of Television, 3 rd November 2003., Date Accessed 30 th April 2017 http://www.broadcastingcable.com/news/news- articles/top-25-tv-networks/101377 Kuzma, Cindy. The Big Fat Snack  Health, vol. 31, no. 4, May 2016, pp. 122-127. EBSCOhost, Date Accessed 3 rd May 2017.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true& db=rgm&AN=114008254&site=eds-live. Minton, Elizabeth A. In Advertising We Trust: Influence on Marketplace and Relational  Journal of Advertising, Published 4 th Dec. 2015, Date Accessed 30 th April 2017. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/00913367.2015.1033572. Time Warner, Time Warner. Date Accessed 30 th April 2017 http://www.timewarner.com/company Watkins, Dennis. Food Makes You Feel Bad And Look Health no.8 2006. Date Accessed 20 th April 2017. eproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebsocohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.155171827&site=eds-live.