Alharbi 1 Abdulrahman Alharbi Anastasia Khawaja ENC1101 4/16/2017 Human and the environment Through the years, the environment has been exposed to a lot of chemicals that were affecting the climate. In the past, people worried about the changes that were happening to the environment because they were not aware of it. Know more people are aware of it than before and they know real thing. The changes that happening to the environment did not happen by itself. There are many reasons that caused environment changed and according to David Tilman in his article, the only one to blame are humans for environmental changes. Since the 1940s, the environment exposed to lots of chemicals that made some change to it. During war world, II and the industrial revolution, the amount of chemical that was released into the environment at that time was huge and harmful to the environment. Despite the fact, the environment change was happening millions of years ago, human-made the process much faster than before and according to Clarence Lehman environmental modifications might become a greater cause of global species The environment change is a real thing that was happening years ago. Both government and people should work together to reduce their affection on the environment and create other ways to live without harming the environment. During the 1940s, people were not paying attention to the environment in that time because of the war and the industrial booming. There famous Greek quote from the that saying is the mother of invention A need or problem encourages creative efforts to meet the Alharbi 2 need or solve the During war world II, people and government care about the environment, the only things that they were focusing on are to survive and winning the war. So they start to build hundreds of factories to produce weaponry and other supplies, not just that, also extract more fuels from earth to create more energy. Even after the end of the war, more and more invention was created to make life better but unfortunately, it affects the environment more. Lots of new cars, home, and factories back then were depending on fossil fuels to work and people were okay with it because it was considered a new thing and they know how harmful to the environment and it spread the world widely. After the spread of the inventions, life became easier and scenes have developed even more. One of the evidence of environmental changes is the disease that discovers or develop every year. According to Richard Sharpe, there were surveys said that a lot of people suspect that manmade chemicals that were released to the environment has effects on human and create new kind of disease including cancer (1). The rate of CO2 and other chemicals has increased in the atmosphere and that because of the humans. Those new inventions that were produced during the industrial revolution were causing the rising level of chemicals in the air and the development of new kind of diseases. It did not stop there, the changes that were happening caused lots of animals and plants extension and could evolve to cause human extinction (Lehman). With all these changes that happened to the environment and the extinction of some creatures, the scientist tries to find a solution to this problem and to find another kind of energy that is not harmful to the environment. The rate of awareness in people has been increasing through the time. With all these new technologies, people are becoming more aware Alharbi 2 of the changes that happen to the environment. Not just that, according to Gregory people are becoming more environmentalist and cars, home and industries are becoming more productive and That mean that people are trying to limit their affection on the environment and that make it good. Even governments have now recognized the problem and start to work to reduce it. According to Coral Davenport in his article, 195 countries has agreed to work for helping the environment inside Paris climate deal in 2015. One of the agreement is to reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, and the role of conservation, sustainable management of According to Gillis, the agreement is too limiting global warming. The agreement well helps the countries that have a high rate of CO2 in their atmosphere. There still some people believe in climate change and consider it a lies (Brown 1). They believed that the climate change is something that was happening many years ago and humans are not responsible for it and true but humans made it worse than it was. Geologists believed that in that past continents were together and they name it Pangaea but throughout the history, it split but they understand the mechanism behind the change. So yes, the earth has been changing million years ago but human is making it worst. What human do is release a large amount of CO2 and other chemicals to the air and at the same time they deforestation. Forests work as a filter that cleans the air from the chemical but a number of chemicals that in the air is greater than the forest can handle. According to David Tilman, concentrations of CO2 in the atmosphere has increased up to 40% above preindustrial (9). That is the way the priority that government talked about in Paris conference is reduced deforestation so we can have fresh air without any kind of polluted air. Alharbi 2 Through the years, the environment has exposed to lots of chemicals that made the environment to change. These changes that happen to the environment create and developed a lot of diseases and cussed animal and plants extinction. Human is the responsible for it and if they work to fix this problem it will lead to their extinction in the end. Fortunately, the rate of awareness has increased to the people and the government and start to work to reduce the problem. Houses and industries are becoming more efficient and environmentally. Alharbi 2 Work cited Coral Davenport, Justin Gillis, Sewell Chan and Melissa Eddy. Inside the Paris Climate  The New York The New York Times, 12 Dec. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017 Colborn, T, F S vom Saal, and A M Soto. Effects of Endocrine-Disrupting Chemicals in Wildlife and Health 101.5 (1993): Print. How Did Continents Split? Geology Study Shows New  - News and Articles on Science and N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Necessity is the mother of dictionary.com Dictionary.com, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Sharpe, Richard M., and D. Stewart Irvine. How strong is the evidence of a link between environmental chemicals and adverse effects on human reproductive  British Medical 328.7437 (2004): 447. Tilman, David, and Clarence Lehman. Human-caused environmental change: impacts on plant diversity and  of the National Academy of 98.10 (2001): 5433-5440. Alharbi 2 Pew: Most Americans Believe in on Climate  N.p., 04 Oct. 2016. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.