Pierre 1 Ayrillyn Pierre Bob Botkin ENC1102 April 26, 2017 Dakota Access Pipeline Paper 3 The Dakota access pipeline controversy is one that almost all Americans are familiar with and have formed some sort of opinion about. This heated topic is a controversy about land rights, environmental protection and American safety concerns. the protests have been going on for almost a year now and the official government decisions made on this issue teeter totter from supporting one side to supporting the other because of the recent change in the executive administration. The Energy Transfer Partners also known as ETP is the company building the pipeline to create and American oil Those are incorrect claims stated in the local North Valley News Live broadcast and they could not be further from the truth. The jobs created from the pipeline are temporary jobs and they are not full time well-paying jobs so they do not include insurance or benefits. The pipeline is also being created for the exporting of oil which is counter intuitive to American oil independence. This paper and the accompanying multimodal presentation will explain how the oil pipeline is being built at the expense of the health, environmental safety, and rights of the Standing Rock Sioux tribe. When the Energy Transfer Partners first sought approval from the government to build the pipeline in December 2014 the proposed route planned to have the pipeline pass through the United States American populated town of Bismarck. The Army corps of engineers denied this first route due to impacts to wellhead water resources, constraints on the route from Pierre 5 the North Dakota Public Service 500-foot residential buffer requirement, and the additional impacts to areas identified as High Consequence areas under Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (US Army Corps of Engineers.) It was at this point that a new route was proposed that would pass through Standing Rock Sioux Native American land. This pipeline was too dangerous to put near a major city, so rather than endanger citizens living in the states capital the Energy Transfer Partners rerouted the pipeline to endanger the lives of Americans they consider to be less important and less powerful. The lives and safety of the Standing Rock Sioux nation are not It is unjust to systematically decide that some peoples lives are more valuable and worth more protection than others. The Standing Rock Sioux nation owns a portion of the land the pipeline has been built on. The 1869 Fort Laramie treaty signed by the United States and the Sioux nation is a legal document stating that some of the land being disturbed does not belong to the United States. Overall the construction of an American pipeline on another nations land should be illegal and is unacceptable and unjust. The standing rock Sioux filed a lawsuit against the construction because the treaty states they are building on Sioux land, which includes sacred burial grounds, but that legal battle was lost and the government failed to provide justice. After the lawsuit failed the Army Corps of Engineers issued a formal demand that the protesters leave the land by February 22, 2017. The use of police force against a peaceful protest and evicting the standing rock Sioux from their land is bad international practice and discredits the American government in the global sphere. If America cannot be trusted to uphold treaties with another nation within its own borders then the American government cannot be trusted to uphold any global or international agreement no matter how big or small. Pierre 5 Environmentally the pipeline is a concern because it runs underneath the Standing rock two main water sources, Lake Oahe and the Missouri river. Any small spills, leaks, or contamination of the water resulting from the pipeline will have devastating results on the surrounding environment and the health and safety of the standing rock Sioux tribe. Pipelines are not required to report or fix some leaks if they are small enough, meaning that a pipeline can leak a small amount periodically and no one will ever have to know until a much larger leak happens. These are a serious concern for the Sioux because the water and planting soil can be contaminated and the Energy transfer partners will not be required to do a clean up process or record and report it. Many of the Standing Rock signs have the slogan Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice and that quote rings true for environmental and safety concerns connected to oil pipelines. Even though this issue takes place in a small part of Dakota and the conflict is headed by a small nation of Americans this issue affects most of America. This pipeline will be built under the largest river in America so a potential spill would affect not only the Sioux tribe but also approximately 18 million Americans who depend on this river in some way shape or form. The oil companies tied up in the construction of this pipeline have been responsible for a number of major leaks in earlier this year. The companies claim that transportation by pipeline is the safest alternative for transporting oil due to advancements in technology and the 99 percent safe statistic, but none of these reasons make transportation by pipeline safe enough when considering the lives lost, environmental damage and health issues associated with pipeline misconduct and accidents. Pierre 5 Though the current American President has decided to support big business over the environment, safety, and land rights but the fight to stop the Dakota Access Pipeline does not have to be over yet. Average Americans can have a hand in putting an end to the injustice in many ways, but with the pipeline so close to being finished time is of the essence and to make any meaningful helpful impact one must act now. The first and most important way is to contact members of congress; Both Senators and District Representative to tell them your facts and conclusion on the matter. The pipeline was approved through executive order so it is unlikely due to the sheer volume of congress that they will organize to stop the pipeline in time, but stating opposition on a matter like this will help in the next battle for environmental safety and land rights. Donating to the protest will be a large help because the funds go toward legal bills and helping those who are displaced and marginalized to find new homes and rebuild their lives. Joining the continuing Washington protests is yet another way to show support for the movement and see to it that another voice is heard. Lastly those who care must continue the conversation and continue to openly voice their concern, disapproval, and opinions on the matter. Once people stop talking about an issue it seems to go away and in cases like these silence is agreement and consent. In conclusion in late January president Donald Trump signed several executive orders that would resume the energy transfer construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline. The company estimates that the pipeline will be fully operational as soon as May 14, 2017. Once the pipeline starts transporting oil it will be a detriment not only to the Standing Rock protesters but also to those living downstream from the Missouri river who are dependent on it as a main water source. Eighteen million lives will be jeopardized and constantly at risk of environmental Pierre 5 contamination and serious health issues. Since is a matter that has the potential to negatively affect the country as a whole Americans must step up and take action against the injustice. Pierre 5 Works Cited A Short Timeline of the Dakota Access Oil  News from Indian Country, vol. 31, no. 2, Feb. 2017, p. 3. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed o&AN=121416549&site=eds-live. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Dakota Access Pipeline  Headquarters U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, n.d. Web. 26 Apr. 2017. Jordan DESTROYS North Dakota TV Anchor on DAPL. Dir. North Valley News Live,. Perf. Jordan Charitonn and Chris Berg. The Young Turks Politics. The Young Turks, 20 Feb. 2017. Web. 26 Apr. 2017. Mufson, Steven and Juliet Eilperin. Trump to Give Green Light to Dakota Access, Keystone XL Oil  The Washington Post, 2017. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.478715241&site=eds-live.