Blank !1 Emily Blank Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 5 March 2017 Death With Dignity Act Everyday, thousands of people nationwide are stuck in an endless cycle of pain and suffering, and the one thing they want is not legal in their state of residence. The topic of physicians assisted suicide, better known as Death With Dignity, has been very controversial ever since a law in Oregon was passed legalizing it. The Death With Dignity act legalizes the euthanasia of terminally ill patients who would prefer to die on their own terms in a peaceful and painless way rather than succumb to their illnesses. Although Oregon was the first state to pass a law legalizing physician assisted suicide, many other states have followed suit in the past few years including Washington, Colorado, Montana, California, and Vermont. Surveys have been conducted to get a broad idea of how the general public views this matter, and the results were not as expected. According to one study, most people believe the Death With Dignity act should be legal for a multitude of illnesses, but not many people said they would actually vote to legalize it (Westfeld 165). This study also showed that people who watched a close friend or family member die a slow and difficult death were more likely to favor physicians assisted suicide and the biggest opposers of the act were those who disagreed for religious or moral reasons. All this information leads to the question of whether or not the Death With Dignity act should be legalized in all states. The conversation about the Death With Dignity Act has not Blank !2 changed over the years, remaining around 50% of people agree physician assisted suicide should be legal while the other half think it should be illegal. Even though the act was legalized in the first state in 1997 Supreme Court found no constitutional to (Gostin 249) although they did give the states the freedom to decide if they would allow physician assisted suicide. There is a heated debate in the medical community about whether or not Death With Dignity breaks a physicians oath to no Studies have shown that doctors who work with the terminally ill and dying tend to favor the Death With Dignity act more than those who do not work with these kind of patients. It has also been reported that in states where physician assisted suicide is not legal, physicians have used substitute approaches in order to quicken their patients upcoming death (Roberts 250). In order to receive the lethal dosage, patient must meet a certain criteria. These said patients must be an adult, two physicians must declare that death is unavoidable, and a mental health professional must clear the patient. These factors are what prevent the abuse of physicians assisted suicide. A study shows that of the 1327 people who have been prescribe a lethal dosage of medicine since the act has been legalized, only 67% actually went through with taking it. People who are prescribed the medication are constantly reminded that they have the opportunity to change their minds at any time and that they should never feel pressured to take the medication (Gostin 250). From November 1997-December 2001 it is stated that the average age of someone who decides to take the lethal does is 69. 97% of the population were white/non-Hispanic. Around 48% of people who used the DWDA were male while 52% were female. 44% of people who used physician assisted suicide were married, 24% were widowed, 25% were divorced, and 7% Blank !3 were never married. This study also shows that 11% of DWDA patients had less than high school education, 46% were high school graduates or had some college education, and 43% of the patients were college graduates. Meanwhile, the study also showed that of those who chose not to use the Death With Dignity act, again 97% were white/non-hispanic. 49% of those who died naturally were male while 51% were female. The martial status of those who decided not to take a lethal dose of medication is 50% were married, 32% were widowed, 14% were divorced, and 4% were never married. Also, 26% of the population had less than a high school degree, 61% were high school graduates or had some college, and 13% were college graduates. In the Netherlands, the topic of conversation has changed because euthanasia used to not be legal but now it is. Here, physicians assisted suicide is defined as helping another person to commit suicide or providing that person with the means to do (Patel 40). In 1999, an act was past allowing physicians to write a prescription for a lethal dose of medication that either the patient can take themselves or the physician can give them a lethal injection (euthanasia). Most people in the Netherlands who are choosing physicians assisted suicide opt for the later where the physician injects a medication that will put the patient in a coma, and then they inject a medication that will stop their heart. Although this is the most common, the Dutch government encourages patients to take the medication themselves. In Oregon, a law was enacted in 1997 stating that any adult can petition to die by the aid of a physician. The major difference between these two are that in Oregon, euthanasia is not legal so therefore lethal injection is not an option. Blank !4 Works Cited Westefeld, John S.1, john-westefeld@uiowa.edu, et al. The Oregon Death With Dignity Act: The Right To Live Or The Right To  Journal Of Loss & Trauma 14.3 (2009): 161-169. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Gostin, Lawrence O, and Anna E Roberts. Physician-Assisted Dying: A Turning  JAMA: Journal Of The American Medical Association 315.3 (2016): 249-250. CINAHL. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Wineberg, Howard, and James L. Jr Werth. Physician-Assisted Suicide In Oregon: What Are The Key  Death Studies 27.6 (2003): 501-518. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Patel, Kant1, KantPaEel@smsu.edu. Euthanasia And Physician-Assisted Suicide Policy In The Netherlands And Oregon: A Comparative  Journal Of Health & Social Policy 19.1 (2004): 37-55. Education Source. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Blank !5