Novak 1 Erica Novak Bob Botkin ENC 1102 19 April, 2017 The Other Side of Pit Bulls Large teeth, thick muscles, ready to attack, blood-thirsty, vicious animals; these are all things people think of when they imagine a Pit Bull Terrier. Unfortunately when dogs are trained to fight, all dogs can become the nightmare inducing killers people conjure in their minds. But, to generalize an entire breed into monsters because cruel people think they are the best fighters, is not just. All breeds of dogs can become aggressive given the right circumstances, and there are even breeds that are bigger and looking than the Pit Bull Terrier. Although they are branded as bad dogs, facts prove that Pit Bulls do not have to live up to their stigma; they are less likely to get adopted in shelters, and they can serve other uses than fighting. When something bad happens and people get scared, that fear grows exponentially, and the news and media sources try to make a good guy and a bad guy. No one wants to fear their Yorkie or Labradoodle, but easy to fear the muscular Pit Bull with the large head and scary teeth. When in fact all dogs, while domesticated, are still animals that can protect themselves in a fight. Although the news tries to find credible sources, sometimes the information they present can be false. Firstly, people have been told that Pit Bulls are naturally aggressive. When in reality, is not a state of being or a temperament. Aggression is a (Fitzgerald). Aggression can present itself in any dog and in a variety of forms, whether it is being protective over food or just a toy, any dog can be aggressive without it being dangerous. Novak 2 Another myth associated with the Pit Bull is that they have a locking jaw. This locking tendency is suppose to make them more dangerous, but studies have shown that there is no unique bone or muscle structure in a Pit Bull Terrier to suggest they can lock their jaws (Fitzgerald). Furthermore, there is a myth saying that Pit Bulls have a stronger bite than any other dog breed. This is a farse due to the fact a jaw strength is determined by many factors other than just breed, such as height, weight, and the dogs emotion when they bite. Lastly, there is the belief that Pit Bulls are more likely to attack people than any other breed of dog. This is incredibly generalized because more often than not people group all bully breeds, around twenty different breeds, into This creates a bias when comparing their ideas of how often bite versus other dogs. Even in the court case v. City of Toledo was no statistical proof that Pit Bull Terriers bite more often than other dogs (Fitzgerald). Overall, there is an abundance of prejudice towards Pit Bull Terriers, but the facts show that they are just as good as any other dog. As an after effect of the stigma placed on Pit Bulls, many shelters are overrun with these dogs just looking for loving homes. This is a huge issue because when people breed their Pit Bulls, they expect the six to twelve puppies that come in a litter (Moore). When these dogs get surrendered, it is then extremely strenuous to find a home for them, since apartments, condos, and even rentals having Breed-Specific Legislation (BSL). BSL is a huge roadblock in the adoption process because even when a family wants to bring a Pit Bull home they are not allowed. Not only does BSL cause issues for adoption but the prejudice extends in the shelters. breed was included on the kennel card, only 52 percent of entering pit bulls were adopted, compared with 64 percent once the breed information was (Mitchell). Novak 3 Removing breed from kennel cards helps with adoption and even from euthanasia with twelve percent fewer Pit Bulls being euthanized at shelters whom do not label them Pit Bulls (Mitchell). This is so important because in some shelters Pit Bull euthanasia can reach up to 50 percent (Weiss). It is clear that the bad guy reputation of Pit Bulls threatens these homes, chances for adoption, and even their lives. The odds are stacked against these dogs, but the stigma and the shelters do nothing but inspire people to reach out and help these dogs. Organizations such as The American Pit Bull Foundation, Ambassador Pit Bull Alliance, Plenty of Pit Bulls, and even the ASPCA all pride themselves on being advocates for Pit Bulls. Non-Profit organizations such as the American Pit Bull Foundation not only rescue Pit Bulls from neglectful homes, but home dogs to responsible owners, help owners pay medical bills, and even start projects like Operation Sidekick. Operation Sidekick is a program that not only helps Pit Bulls find homes, but trains these dogs as service dogs and places them with veterans and children suffering from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. The most important part of these organizations are their outreach and opportunities to not just donate but volunteer with them. This gives people of all ages and backgrounds opportunity to help these dogs get the homes and lives they deserve. When it comes to the ability to make a change, humans hold the power compared to dogs. up to individuals to become educated and change the narrative for Pit Bulls. There are thousands of dogs in shelters waiting to find homes, but with roadblocks like Breed-specific Legislation in place, people need to step up and fight for these animals. Luckily the immense amounts of pro-Pit Bull organizations and associations allow people of all ages, sizes, and backgrounds to get involved, change the narrative, and help these dogs get the love they deserve. Novak 4 Works Cited Fitzgerald, Jackie, and J. Thomas. Myths &  Stop BSL. WordPress, 25 June 2014. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Mitchell, Morgan. Labeling Dogs as Which a Real Breed, Keeps Them in Shelters, According to a New Study. Newsweek, 1 June 2016. Accessed 19 Apr. 2017. Moore, Benjamin. Why You See So Many Pit Bulls In BarkPost, 2015, Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. Weiss, Emily. Out of the ASPCA Professional, ASPCA, 28 May 2015. Accessed 19 Apr. 2017.