German 1 Emma German Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.078 21 April 2017 The Right to Die in Peace Cancer, among the many types of terminal illnesses have a huge prevalence in our society today and is only increasing. According to the National Cancer Institute (NIH), based on data from 2010-2012, approximately 39.6% of people in the United States will be diagnosed with cancer at some point during their lifetimes. In fact, the number of cancer deaths is 171.2 per 100,000 men and women per year That means there are about that many people who have to spend the rest of their lives in hospital beds, dying in pain. However, sufferers of terminal illnesses have to spend the rest of the time they have left in pain, feeling weak and a loss of dignity. This is where physician-assisted suicide comes in. However, this peaceful end-of-life option is only legally an option in 6 of the 50 United States. Clearly, this is an issue that needs to be solved, and what better way to spread the word than through young- evolving college students. More specifically, students involved in the University of South Florida Advertisement Club can make a great impact in helping resolve the issue. Because physician- assisted suicide is illegal in a majority of the United States due to the government, sufferers of terminal illnesses do not get to end their life peacefully, taking away basic human rights from the people. With the help of the Advertisement Club at USF, they can make an impact on giving the people a choice to die peacefully and not in pain by spreading awareness about the need to legalize physician-assisted suicide. German 2 Legalizing physician-assisted suicide is a crucial step in improving the lives of many. In order to understand why it is so crucial, one must first understand what it is. Physician-assisted suicide refers to when person self-administers a lethal substance prescribed by a (Pereira). It is used as an end-of-life option for terminally ill patients who want to go through costly and painful treatments to try to buy more time to live. In a journal article about Oregon perception of physician-assisted suicide and their experiences, one physician could recall a patient that stated, want to do it on my terms. I want to choose the place and time. I want my friends to be there. And I want to linger and dwindle and rot in front of (Ganzini 386). It is unethical for the government to take away the basic human freedom of dying in dignity and peace. In terms of ethics, many religious groups such as Muslims struggle in deciding to end the suffering with the idea that suicide is a sin that goes unforgiven in their religion (Isgandarova 215). This is why the Constitution was put in place. Everyone has different beliefs and opinions and it is unconstitutional under the First Amendment for the government to deny access to physician-assisted suicide based upon religious beliefs especially for those too young to think for themselves (Williams). However, the thought of lethal prescriptions going into the wrong hands such as mentally disabled persons can raise a few eyebrows. This is why ideally, the federal legalization of physician-assisted suicide should follow the qualifications set up by Oregon, (one of the very few states that have legalized the act) called the Death With Dignity Act. These qualifications include being 18 years of age or older, being mentally capable, having a diagnosis of a terminal illness leading to death within six months, and must go through various psychiatric evaluations With Dignity Act One of the most impactful group of people that can make a difference for physician- assisted suicide laws are college students, more specifically, the Advertisement Club at the German 3 University of South Florida. According to their web page, cooperatively with local businesses provides members first-hand advertising experience while aiding the needs of the In other words, this club is designed to allow students to gain experience in advertisement and to gain inside information on available internships and job opportunities while helping out the community. With the involvement of the University of South Florida Advertisement Club in legalizing physician-assisted suicide in America, the club can help greatly benefit the lives of many people. As mentioned earlier, the whole mission of the Advertisement Club at USF is to gain opportunities and experience in advertisement while helping out the community. This is exactly what members of the club will achieve if they decide to become engaged in the fight towards legalizing physician-assisted suicide. After all, what better way is there to help the community than to join the fight towards giving the American people one of the greatest freedoms of all, to control how oneself lives and dies? As far as gaining experience and job opportunities, taking on a meaningful task by vocalizing opinions about human ethics, morals and rights allows for an eye-catching resume. Above all, members of the club or anyone for that matter can feel a great satisfactory feeling in doing something to better the community. In return, the engagement of the Advertisement Club can benefit the fight towards legalization because by getting involved and advertising the issue at hand, it will allow more and more people to become aware of the problem and join the movement. This will help end the suffering of many lives and help give the people the human rights and freedom they deserve. In order to help make the legalization of physician-assisted suicide to happen, the Advertisement Club of USF can become engaged in a number of ways. One of the most apparent, yet influential ways the Advertisement Club can become involved is to advertise about German 4 the need to legalize physician-assisted suicide, as well as advertising how to get involved. Creating posters to put up around campus and fliers to hand out to students and other community members, creating commercials to display on local news channels and radio stations. Creating digital advertisements online will also allow the need to legalize physician-assisted suicide spread not only in the community, but globally due to the fact that the internet is used and accessed by people all around the world. Websites for organizations such as Compassion and Choices and Death With Dignity include several simple ways to make a difference. Donating to these organizations or signing a petition for the state one resides in are a couple of ways to do so. Contacting local lawmakers to ask to consider medical aid in dying as well as volunteering by fundraising or educating the public are other efficient ways to help. Not only can the Advertisement Club promote all of these ways to help, but members should participate in these methods themselves. Every donation, petition signature, letter to a lawmaker, and volunteer hour can make a difference. By following these simple steps to promote the legalization of physician-assisted suicide, the Advertisement Club at the University of South Florida can make a huge positive impact to give the people of the United States the freedom to die in peace with dignity. The ability to choose how to die is something sufferers of terminal illnesses have as much a right to as choosing how to live. Nobody wants to spend the rest of their life dying in pain and losing dignity while spending a fortune on life-sustaining procedures when there is no point to sustain a dreadful rest of life. That is why with the efforts of the Advertisement Club at USF, this issue can become more and more acknowledged, causing more people to take a stand. Even doing the simplest acts such as donating to organizations with the same goals or signing petitions can make a big difference. The need to legalize physician-assisted suicide is an apparent issue, German 5 and just with the help of a small-scale college club, change can happen in communities, nation- wide, and even globally. German 6 Works Cited: Ad . Orgsync.com. 2017. Web. 21 Apr. 2017, https://orgsync.com/90884/chapter Cancer  National Cancer Institute. 14 Mar. 2016. 27 Feb. 2017. https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/understanding/statistics Death With Dignity Act Public Health. Oregon Public Health Division, 2015. Web. 21 Apr. 2017, https://public.health.oregon.gov/ProviderPartnerResources/EvaluationResearch/Deathwit hDignityAct/Documents/requirements.pdf Ganzini, Linda, et al. Oregon Perceptions of Patients Who Request Assisted Suicide and Their  Journal of Palliative Medicine, vol. 6, no. 3, June 2003, p. 381-390. Isgandarova, Nazila. Physician-Assisted Suicide and Other Forms of Euthanasia in Islamic Spiritual  The Journal of Pastoral Care & Counseling, vol. 69, no. 4, Dec. 2015, pp. 215-221. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1177/1542305015616099. Pereira, J. Legalizing Euthanasia Or Assisted Suicide: The Illusion Of Safeguards And . PubMed Central (PMC). 2011. Web. 20 Apr. 2017, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3070710/ Williams, R. (2012). PHYSICIAN-ASSISTED DEATH VERSUS PARENS PATRIAE: GOTTA GIVE. First Amendment Law Review, 10692 https://litigation-essentials.lexisnexis.com/webcd/app?action=DocumentDisplay&crawlid =1&doctype=cite&docid=10+First+Amend.+L.+Rev.+692&srctype=smi&srcid=3B15& key=c3ddf48eff91b089f17a39de19f7a82a German 7