Pogue 1 Matthew Pogue Bob Botkin ENC 1102 15 April 2017 P3: Intermediate Draft The debate about animal testing being used for scientific and commercial purposes has divided the general public. The issue has caused controversy among whether or not animal testing has violated rights when used in research, wondering if animal testing is really worth any benefit to humans, and discovering the shocking statistics. The world will now learn the truth about cosmetic companies conducting animal testing and how they have corrupted the general public with their lies. Pogue 2 Animal testing is defined as on living animals for purposes of research into basic biology diseases, assessing the effectiveness of new medicinal products, and testing the human health and/or environmental safety of consumer and industry products such as cosmetics, household cleaners, food additives, pharmaceuticals and (Humane Society International). For years, businesses such as cosmetic companies have used animal testing as a way to help products that they hope to unveil in the future. Some of these cosmetic companies that are currently using animal testing procedures are Estee, Avon, Mary Kay and many others. For each of these cosmetic companies they use a range of different testing procedures on animals. Some common examples of procedures performed on animals are food and water deprivation, infliction of pain, prolonged periods of physical restraint, forced chemical exposure, and many others. Some of the common animals used in animal testing are domestic and farm animals. According to PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals), is estimated that more than 100 million animals worldwide are killed in U.S. laboratories for biology lessons, medical training, curiosity- driven experimentation, and chemical, food, drug, and cosmetic (Experiments). Did humans know that 90%of animals used in labs are not counted in the official statistics of animals (dosomething.org). This could mean that more than 100 million animals are kept off the books, which is insane. Did they also know that 92% of the experimental drugs that are safe and effective in animals fail in human clinical trials because they are too dangerous or do not (dosomething.org). The world today should pay more attention to this issue because it violates rights when they are used in research, and the pain and suffering that experimental animals are Pogue 3 subject to is not worth any possible benefits to humans. One of the biggest reasons the world should pay attention to this issue is because it violates rights which has caused controversy. According to PETA, it states that 95% of the Animal Welfare Act does not provide the appropriate care and treatment for animals, such as dogs, cats, birds, hamsters, monkeys, and many others. One example how cosmetic companies treat animals is that they would put devices around the neck. In the picture above, it shows three different animals a cat, a monkey, and a rabbit. One of the animals is a monkey with a device around its neck. This could mean that these cosmetic companies do not care about the health and well-being of these animals. The device that is around the neck is probably a device used to inflict pain or a device that can control the actions. In the picture, the monkey can be seen as having a terrified face because it has no idea what is going on, which also has no idea what will happen next. Imagine this monkey having all of its limbs locked and it can not go anywhere. Plus, these animals tend to scream or yelp when they are in the need for assistance. Like the monkey, the cat and rabbit are also displaying emotional features. For the cat, it looks like it is very emotional probably because it has a device attached on top of its head, as well as clothing wrapped around its body. In comparison, the rabbit looks extremely nervous in the picture because it has put its body in a hutch position, which could mean that the rabbit is scared about what will happen next. In the end, these devices show that various cosmetic companies are not following the standards of the Animal Welfare Act and that they are properly taking care of these animals. Humans should also take action against these cosmetic companies and say that it is not ok to kill innocent animals just so that they can unveil a new product. They must show and convince Pogue 4 them that are other viable alternatives to animal testing. One of these alternatives are tissue chips, which researchers hope it will model human organs so that they can visualize how cosmetic products affect humans. According to the Irish University Review, a team of researchers and scientists at Texas A&M University are conducting tests to determine if this chips are fuctionable. Ivan Rusyn, who is a professor at the university and the leader of the research team says that these chips help facilitate the use of tissue ships for drug and chemical testing in both the United States and (Tissue Chips). He states that chips may improve our ability to ensure that a drug is safe before clinical trials begin and could ultimately replace drug testing in humans and (Tissue Chips). Another alternative to animal testing is blood from human volunteers to test for the presence for fever-causing contaminants in intravenous medicines, which can save hundreds of thousands of rabbits each (Humane Society). By using blood samples taken from human volunteers instead of animals is a better solution because researchers and scientists are trying to figure out how certain cosmetic products will affect humans before these cosmetic companies unveil these new products. In addition to using human volunteers, researchers and scientists are able use the Modular immune in vitro construct which uses human cells that were gathered from the blood samples to create a model of the human immune system. This will allow scientists to conduct a number of tests to see if these products have any effect on the human body. These alternatives are just two ways that cosmetic companies can test their future products before it goes out on the market for the general public. In the end, Humans are defined by the choices that they make and by showing their support for the fight against animal testing shows that they deeply care about this issue. So if Pogue 4 humans do not show their support in the fight against animal testing, then millions of animals will continue to die in laboratories. One action that the general public can take is to go to the headquarters of these cosmetic companies and convince them that what they are doing to animals is morally wrong and inhumane. Another action people can take is to continue to educate people on this issue because the more the message spread arounds to, the more of chance a difference can be made. This was definitely effective because it is easy to do and any can do it. As stated before, animal testing is defined as on living animals for purposes of (Human Society International). The reason people should pay more attention to this topic is because it violates rights when used in research and there are other alternatives to animal testing that need to be addressed to the world. Finally, humans should take action against these cosmetic companies and say that it is not ok to harm innocent animals in order to unveil a new product. They must show these cosmetic companies that there are other ways to test cosmetic products without using live animals. Pogue 4 Works Citied Society Accessed 16 Apr 2017 chips may become alternative to animal Irish University Review: a journal of Irish Studies, vol. 47, no.12, 2016, p.15. Academic OneFile to animal The Humane Society of the United States ml. Accessed 21 April 2017 Facts About Animal Dosomething.org https://www.dosomething.org/us/facts/11- facts-about-animal-testing Accessed 21 April 2017 on Animals: PETA http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for- experimentation/animals-used-experimentation-factsheets/animal-experiments-overview/ Accessed 21 April 2017