Toshita Prithipaul Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102- 909 3 May 2017 Collaboration of two partners to promote research. Research is imperative to make new development in the scientific field and to improve current technologies used so that near future can be predicted. Private and governmental organizations both contribute to expanding that field to ease current living situations. NASA is one of the major organizations in helping to broadened research in many ways, for its mission statement is to new horizons and Many discoveries have been carried out throughout the past years and the rate of improvement of the company is currently increasing exponentially, inferring that future discoveries are most likely to be made. Another association that is improving research to a large extent is NOAA having mission statement: understand and predict changes in climate, weather, oceans, and coasts, to share that knowledge and information with others, and to conserve and manage coastal and marine ecosystems and (Mission Statement). It has the goal to predict climate issues and prevent damaging catastrophes form occurring. These two association, if work together, will bring benefit to current situations and improve lives of humans greatly. They are promoting the same goal; develop science to support the daily life. NOAA, is the organization that focuses on the oceanographic features read by satellites orbiting the Earth to predict and prevent weather conditions. The goal of the organization is to study the ocean and the atmosphere to extract enough information to predict and avoid any severe weather conditions. These forecasting obtained help other professions that operate from the data recorded. dedicated scientists use cutting-edge research and high- tech instrumentation to provide citizens, planners, emergency managers and other decision makers with reliable information they need when they need (About our agency). Satellites orbit the Earth to provide useful information to understand constant weather changes occurring. The technologies and instruments used record the intensity and danger of lighting. addition, the instrument will help identify lightning-sparked wildfires in dry areas like the American West, which should lead to faster response times from fire (Rosen) The information collected will help the public to prepare for the most extremes conditions that can be experienced. Moreover, the provided information will enable to avoid havocs that can be experienced. Another technology developed by NOAA tracts Tsunamis and measures the intensity of the impact. A new system was developed known as DART after experiencing a Tsunami in 1995. (Taft et al 2583). This system collects data recorded by buoys that record the acoustic waves. The system monitors waves and records irregularities in their patterns, the change is then studied by experts in the field to predict if potential danger may occur. NASA has been advancing science at a fast pace since the last years. They make the use of satellites and probes to collect useful information. The STEPS project was made place to carry out robotic missions on the moon and on Mars. The technology used developed a program where the changes happening in space were The STEPS project was oriented to investigate the specific technologies as well as to develop virtual and physical demonstrators of lander and rover together with a series of engineering infrastructures and technological (Messidoro 220). The project was carried out to build new technologies and determine new directions that can be taken to expand this field of research. These will expand the research and make new development in the space exploration missions. space exploration involves evaluating system designs iteratively by varying circuit-level design choices applied to various modules in the (Thangaraj 203). This article states how circuits can be developed and designed to improve technologies in the space industry and further expand research. From the development of instruments and programs designed specifically, weather hazards that may be harmful to the Earth will be avoided and extreme conditions will be handled more easily. The same technologies used to expand these fields of study will also help in the improvement of current medical equipment. This will enable the possibility of improving the technology to merge them together to create better ones. The medical field will be expanded and research will help to determine cures to unknown diseases or improve pharmaceutical drugs. This will create an expansion of jobs in these fields of study and reduce the number of unemployed people. These organizations have the goal to advance science by promoting research. New discoveries and findings that are required to develop the future will be obtained with the continuation of research. Both organizations have contributed in making changes to a better world; and helped in understanding what seemed to be impossible to think of. With further research in science, new technologies will be developed. On the basis of this, improvements will be made to further develop the scientific field. Work cited Thangaraj, Charles, design space exploration using legacy design data and technology scaling Vol 43, no 2, 202-219, http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S0167926009000571. Accessed 3 May 2017. Messidoro, Pierro, technologies for space exploration systems: The STEPS project results and ,vol 86, 219-236, http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S0094576512004821. Accessed 3 May 2017. Taft, B. et al, of the Deep-ocean Assessment and Reporting of Tsunamis network - a technology transfer from NOAA research to NOAA http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/document/1282977/?reload=true Rosen, Ben, New NOAA technology tracks lightning in real time from, The Christian Science Monitor. March 6, space2017http://search.proquest.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/docview/1874553465?accountid=1474 5. Accessed 3 May 3, 2017 NOAA, About our Agency, http://www.noaa.gov/about-our-agency.