Anderson 1 Brooke Anderson Ms. Tisdale Composition 1 23 March 2017 Changing the Topic of Recreational Marijuana Recently Americans are beginning to realize the benefits of legalizing the recreational use of marijuana. Ever since Colorado began the process of recreational legalization, Americans everywhere are seeing the benefits of the tax revenue in the state. Many other states have started to follow lead and they are already starting to see the benefits as well. Alaska and Washington were the first two follow and just recently Washington D.C., Massachusetts, North Dakota, Oregon, Maine, California and Nevada all passed the law as well. These states have begun to take advantage of the economic profits that come with the legal selling of marijuana. Since 2012, the conversation about legalizing recreational has changed due to the profits that Colorado has produced from marijuana sales. The first state to legalize recreational marijuana was Colorado. Since the legalization in 2012 the state has raised over 40 million dollars in taxes. This is with only taxing 35% on sales. They have gotten so much money they have started to redo their public schools. In the end of 2012, Washington followed lead and legalized the selling of recreational marijuana as well. In Washington they tax their sales or marijuana 37%. They have also used their money to benefit their community by giving it to youth drug prevention groups (Goltz 2017). These states have a surplus of money so they can use it on whatever they feel matters. Both of these states also still strictly enforce laws involving the safety since they understand marijuana is a drug. Other states have started to see they should follow their examples by legalizing it while Anderson 2 enforcing (Jensen 2010). Even states, like Nevada, who used to be against it have changed their opinion and legalized it. Another state that has legalized marijuana recreationally is Oregon. They passed the law in the middle of 2015. They tax it differently than the states mentioned before. They tax the sale of recreational marijuana based of the weight of the product. Each ounce is taxed $50. Marijuana been legal in Oregon long enough to see the actual benefits but as of right now it is predicted to bring in seven million one hundred thousand dollars in the next year (Vaida 2016). All three of these examples have seen the benefits of recreational legalizations and how they are leading the way for the conversation to change about this topic. Since marijuana has not been legal for very long, the conversation has just now started to change about how people feel about it being legal. Right now it is legal in eight states and many are predicted to follow. The states that become legal in the end of 2016 were Washington D.C., Massachusetts, North Dakota, Oregon, Maine, California and Nevada. Each of these states are predicting at least one million dollars in tax revenue the first year of legalization. This includes all marijuana produces including pipes, papers, and bongs. Right now these things are taxed as tobacco projects, which is not has heavily taxed as marijuana is. They have also predicted how the federal legalization of recreational marijuana would be very beneficial. If each of the states would bring in about one million dollars each year, that means the federal government would be bringing in about eight million dollars a year just from marijuana taxes (Underhill). If the government puts in place laws to keep people safe then it is perfectly logical for recreational marijuana to become federally legal. These states, and their profits are the reason the conversation about legalization is changing. America is seeing the benefits from these states and want to follow their lead. Anderson 3 Since 2012, the conversation about legalizing recreational has changed because of the profits that Colorado has produced from marijuana sales. Most people are starting to realize the benefits that other states have already seen from this legalization. The main reason the conversation about this topic has change is due to the tax benefits states are seeing. The few dangers of smoking marijuana are being less and less important when the profits that can be made are so beneficial. The conversation has changed drastically since the first state legalized marijuana in 2012 and will continue to change until all sates pass it as legal or it becomes federally legal. Anderson 4 Works Cited Goltz, Nachshon, and Ekaterina Bogdanov. Lessons from Washington and Colorado: the potential financial gains of recreational marijuana to  Canada-United States Law Journal 2016: 126. Academic OneFile. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Jensen, Randal. California Dreams Of Taxing Pot. (Cover  Bond Buyer 374.33408 (2010): 1-31. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Vaida, Jeremy M. The Altered State Of American Drug  Tax Lawyer 4 (2015): 761. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.