Stamm 1 Melissa-Lynn Stamm Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 3 May 2017 Saving One GMO Label at a Time In a typical trip to the grocery store consumers would never think that it is necessary to look over the ingredients in everything you buy. However, with the amount of dangerous additives and chemicals used to genetically modify food, and other products today it is necessary. However, it would sure be helpful if the companies just provided a label to easily explain whether or not the product contains GMOs. This is exactly why the U.S. needs mandatory GMO food labeling laws, so that people can know exactly what is in the food they are buying. The first plant to be a genetically modified organism was discovered by scientists in the southwestern region of Asia. This was thousands of years before Charles Darwin introduced the theory of artificial selection to explain how GMOs first came to exist in dogs from domesticated wolves (Rangel 3-5). A genetically modified organism means that the organism has been altered with the addition of multiple genes that would not be found naturally. Some of these risky altercations include the addition of acids, aspartame, ascorbic acid, canola high fructose corn syrup, soy (lecithin), MSG, and more (Poncavage 1). Now, it is extremely common to find many traits and chemicals such as the ones mentioned in Joanna article Deception About in most of our crops and food consumed today. This is exactly why our country needs mandatory labeling laws, to help groups of people like More4kids, an organization dedicated to bettering the world as a whole by providing Stamm 2 parents with information and resources to help their children grow physically, intellectually, and emotionally (More4kids). GMO labeling laws should be mandatory in the United States, because groups of parents such as more4kids need more available information to continue their mission and help parents raise their children in the best way they know how. With More4kids support in GMO labeling laws, not only will they carry out their mission statement and goals by helping parents reduce health risks in their children, but they will also have aided in the same health effect across the whole U.S. population. Out of the 64 countries that carry mandatory labeling laws, the United States along with most of Africa and the Middle East do not carry any laws on genetically modified food labeling (Ettinger 2). This is giving the U.S. government, and the food and Drug Administration (FDA) free range to modify as many crops as they want. The majority of food and crops have already been modified 90 percent of the canola, corn, cotton, soybeans, and sugar beets grown in this country are genetically foods, such as corn chips, baked goods, cereals, and (Poncavage 1). Many modifications include ingredients like aspartame, which is a chemical known to cause neurotoxicity, yet this is still commonly used as an artificial sweetener in many products such as Advil, Yoplait, Fiber One, Nesquick, and more found in any grocery stores (Dr. Edward Group). It is also very common to find aspartame in many vitamins, such as Advil chewable. Aspartame once ingested will break down into aspartate, methanol, and phenylalanine. Methanol will further convert into formaldehyde product that research at the Ramazzini foundation has shown to cause which is also a toxic substance found in cigarettes (Lofstedt 263). Therefore, without them even Stamm 3 knowing parents are feeding their kids food that contains the same ingredient found in cigarettes. The organization more4kids, should include results described in article on their website so that concerned parents may read the evidence and come to the same conclusion. Agreeing that it is now crucial to have GMO labels on products, the fate of their own health is at stake. More4kids is a family owned company created with the sole intention of helping children through a multitude of online resources, facts, and advice. Through this company, a team of parents who are also the writers and bloggers behind the website work very hard to find the most important, and up to date information and resources to provide for other parents visiting the site. More4kids has also made it their mission to target the attention on children who may be looking for support, but need some guidance or help through the available sources this company offers via internet. This company provides short articles discussing up to date problems that are happening all over the world with children, such as preventing sickness at school or in daycare, and homework tips for parents and kids. The only article missing from their website is one on why GMO labeling is important, and how to avoid dangerous GMOs. If the organization More4kids takes part in supporting GMO food labeling laws in the U.S. they will greatly benefit, because they will be able to meet their goals by providing parents with the necessary information on GMOs, and how it is dangerous for their children. With More4kids supporting GMO labeling and publicly acknowledging the importance of knowing what is in the food we consume, more parents and their kids will want better food and products. The encouragement from this company will help to reach more people across the U.S. that want to join in the fight for labeling, and learn Stamm 4 more about the impact they can make by becoming more involved. Some other companies have taken similar steps such as Panera Bread, and also Chipotle a worldwide known fast food restaurant that has recently become first national restaurant chain to voluntarily disclose GMO ingredients and pledged then to move to non-GMO not result in significantly higher (Horovitz 12). If restaurants like Chipotle and Panera Bread were able to take such impressive steps towards a healthier GMO free lifestyle, then More4kids will have no problem following similar steps in promoting the same lifestyle. More and more people everyday want natural, organic, Non-GMO ingredients 92% of consumers believe that genetically engineered food should be this goes to show that the world really is changing, and it is up to the public to use the resources available to spread awareness on the genetically engineered (GE) food crisis at hand (Horovitz 7). In order for More4kids to get involved on the topic of GMO labeling in the United States all they have to do is update the contents of their website by taking a look into what type of dangerous GMOs there are, how to avoid buying them, and how to make an impact by spreading awareness. The first step is to become more involved in a safer lifestyle, which requires research on why foods should be correctly labeled whether or not they contain GMOs, and learning as much as you can on the topic. The next couple steps are simple due to the fact that More4kids is built upon a cogent team of writers and bloggers, so getting the information out to the world be so difficult. As a company goal is to bring parents the most crucial and relevant information, the important topic of GMO labeling will make for a very interesting article that parents will be eager to read about. One of the most important parts of a life while they are Stamm 5 growing up and still learning is their health, which would immediately apply to the food they are consuming. With the increase in most people shopping for organic, Non-GMO verified products in local grocery stores and markets today, More4kids will be sure to bring millions of views to their website by providing the necessary information. This information includes where to buy the best and most affordable Non-GMO products, how to quickly locate different labels on products such as the Non-GMO label, and the many hazardous health effects caused by dangers of GMOs (The Non-GMO Project). There are so many parents looking for information online to tell them what is safe for their kids to consume, and how GMOs have to cause cancer in the and other illnesses, but there really is not an abundance of sites that provided information like this, which makes More4kids the perfect candidate (Lofstedt 263). GMO labeling in the United States has been a controversial topic for years, and now more people and companies are starting to see why it is so important to have these laws. By taking initiative, the company More4kids can exceed their goals and provide an immense amount of information, and helpful resources to parents who want to know more about the effects of GMOs through there online website. Stamm 6 Work Cited NON GMO Project, https://www.nongmoproject.org/about/. Accessed 29 January 2017. More4kids, http://www.more4kids.info/about-us/. Accessed 16 April 2017. Dr. Edward Group. top 20 GMO Foods and Ingredients to 24 July 2013, Global Healing Center, http://www.globalhealingcenter.com/natural-health/top- 20-gmo-foods-and-ingredients-to-avoid/. Accessed 16 April 2017. Horovitz, Bruce. leads the way by kicking GMOs to the USA Today, 28 April 2015, pp. 5B. http://go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/i.do?p=AONE&u=tamp44898&id =GALE%7C0RXA&v=2.1&it=aboutJournal&authCount=1. Accessed 16 April 2017. Lofstedt, E. Ragner. Communication, Media Amplification, and the Aspartame Risk Management, Vol. 10, Issue 4, Oct. 2008, pp. 257-284. Palgrace Macmillan Journals, http://www.jstor.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/stable/pdf/27670011.pdf. Accessed 22 April 2017. Westgate: Megan Westgate leads the nonprofit Non-GMO Project, whose reach is Nutritional Outlook, Vol. 15, Issue 10, Dec. 2012, pp. 36. General OneFile, http://go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/retrieve.do?tabID=T003&resultLis Stamm 7 earchForm&currentPosition=1&docId=GALE%7CA339015801&docType=Articl e&sort=RELEVANCE&contentSegment=&prodId=ITOF&contentSet=GALE%7 CA339015801&searchId=R1&userGroupName=tamp44898&inPS=true. Accessed 26 January 2017. Americans Embracing Plant- Based, Organic & Non-GMO Nutraceuticals World, Vol. 19, Issue 8, Oct. 2016, pp. 16. WORLD Health Organization, http://go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/retrieve.do?tabID=T003&resultLis earchForm&currentPosition=1&docId=GALE%7CA468699852&docType=Articl e&sort=RELEVANCE&contentSegment=&prodId=AONE&contentSet=GALE% 7CA468699852&searchId=R1&userGroupName=tamp44898&inPS=true. Accessed 10 April 2017. Poncavage, Joanna. Deception About Mother Earth News, Issue 271, Sept. 2015, pp. 11. Ogden Publications, http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=df09 9645-c165-4942-8b17-cd6e9170b394%40sessionmgr120&vid=15&hid=4103. Accessed 10 April 2017. Rangel, Gabriel. Corgis to Corn: A Brief Look at the Long History of GMO SITN, 9 Aug. 2015, http://sitn.hms.harvard.edu/flash/2015/from- corgis-to-corn-a-brief-look-at-the-long-history-of-gmo-technology/. Accessed 29 January 2017. Stamm 8