Stow 1 Cassidy Stow Bob Botkin ENC 1102-063 16 April 2017 Living a GMO-Free Life Genetically modified organisms, or as they are commonly called GMOs, are organisms that have genetically modified DNA through engineering. GMOs include food and drinks for both people and animals as well as some personal items sold in stores. These modified organisms can be plant, animal, or microorganisms engineered through gene-splicing with DNA from other organisms (Schmidt, 2005). While this sounds like a great scientific breakthrough, there are many risks to humans, animals, and our environment. GMOs are currently labeled by law in sixty-four countries around the world including Japan, Australia, and all the countries in the European Union (Just Label It, 2013). So why are they not labeled in America? It is pretty simple. Big-name food companies are fighting the labeling laws in order to make more profit. More money to these companies means more money for their legal team which leads to consumers unknowingly buying and using GMOs every day. Luckily, there are stores and companies committed to the health of society and they are helping fight for the labeling of GMOs while informing the public about the dangers of consuming and using these items. GMOs are created in labs by scientists through engineering. The DNA from a crop or animal is extracted and modified through gene-splicing. Gene-splicing is when an undesired portion of an DNA is removed and replaced with that of a desired portion from another organism (Schmidt, 2005). The organism with this modified DNA is then reproduced with another of its kind and the offspring is what is being sold in stores. This can be done to any Stow 2 plant or animal. These genetically modified crops greatly affect the environment due to the fact that the environment is constantly changing. For example, certain crops are now being modified to be insect resistant. Again, sounds like a great scientific discovery. Until the insects started mutating and continued feeding on the crops even though they were supposed to be resistant. As scientists make these crops more resistant the insects will continue to evolve (Kathage, 2013). While genetically modified animal products do not pose as much of an issue on the environment, yet, they are still very harmful to humans and the animals themselves. Some companies even agree that it is animal cruelty to genetically modify the DNA for human consumption. The animals are bred in captivity and kept on farms that strictly serve the big-name food companies distributing genetically modified products (Your Genome, 2017). There are a number of reasons why one should avoid consuming GMOs. The biggest health concerns stem from the fact that the human body cannot correctly process modified foods. Some of the health issues linked to this include infertility, immune problems, accelerated aging, faulty insulin regulation, and changes in major organs and the gastrointestinal system (Institute for Responsible Technology, 2014). Another common issue is allergic reactions. When scientists use DNA from certain organisms, like nuts for example, and put it into the DNA of food such as fruit or vegetables, people with a nut allergy can have a reaction. Currently, proteins are the leading cause of allergies, which unfortunately is also one of the most commonly used DNA strands used in gene splicing for GMOs. Scientists have changed the DNA of produce such as fruits and vegetables so they have more protein and are therefore for the consumer. The only problem is the protein comes from the DNA of eggs, dairy, wheat, fish, shellfish, soybeans, tree nuts and peanuts: all of which are the top eight most highly allergic foods in the Stow 3 world (Organic Consumers Association, 2012). This means people are consuming these potentially dangerous foods every day without realizing. The Non-GMO Project is a company that is actively fighting for the labeling of GMOs while helping inform society about the danger that can come from consuming and using genetically modified products. They work with organic companies to label all natural products to differentiate those from genetically modified products. Since the company was started ten years ago, it has grown exponentially and they have even started a side project called Living GMO- Free. They have teamed up with 3,127 companies and verified 43,623 products as GMO free (Living Non-GMO, 2016). These products can be found in most grocery stores, convenience stores, and specialty organic and natural stores. The Non-GMO Project also helps expand and preserve organic companies to ensure that the big-name GMO companies do not take over the food industry. What foods are GMO free? Since the labeling of genetically modified products is currently not required by law, one could find healthy and natural foods as easily as looking for specific phrases on products. Some phrases could include and many more. The Non-GMO Project also teamed up with many companies to add their logo to all natural foods. The logo is a cartoon monarch butterfly with the Non-GMO Project name. These foods are verified as safe and healthy. One could also find an array of GMO free products at grocery stores such as Whole Foods. There are many locally owned all natural grocery stores as well as 462 Whole Foods locations in the United States (Whole Foods Market, 2016). Some people are saying that clean eating and healthy lifestyles are only a in society today. However, with health issues and obesity quickly becoming an epidemic, especially Stow 4 in the United States, that theory is incorrect. Healthy lifestyles used to be more common amongst people across the world. It seems to be that the increase of genetically modified foods being sold in markets that is causing said health issues like diabetes and heart disease as well as obesity. The of being healthy started with those who quickly recognized the dangers of consuming genetically engineered products. If more people were educated on what is happening in the rapidly changing food industry and recognized the increase of genetically modified foods being sold in stores, obesity and health problems would not be such an issue. Will you make the change for a healthy life? Stow 5 Works Cited Company  Whole Foods Market. N.p., Dec. 2014. Web. 10 Apr. 2017 GE Foods Can Cause Allergic  Organic Consumers Association. N.p., Sept. 2012. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Genome, Your. Is It Ethical to Genetically Modify Farm Animals for  Debates. The Public Engagement Team at the Welcome Genome Campus, 17 Feb. 2017. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Health  Institute for Responsible Technology. N.p., Mar. 2014. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. It, Just Label. Labeling Around the  Just Label It. N.p., June 2013. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Kathage, Jonas. Pest Resistance to Bt  Biology Fortified, Inc. N.p., 10 Apr. 2013. Web. 10 Apr. 2017.  Living Non-GMO : The Non-GMO Project. N.p., Oct. 2016. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Schmidt, Charles W. Genetically Modified Foods: Breeding  Environmental Health Perspectives. National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, Aug. 2005. Web. 10 Apr. 2017.