Penland 1 Ryan Penland Professor Basil ENC1102 30 April 17 Project 3 Final Draft The age of technology is upon us, and nearly every citizen in America is very engaged within our means of technology. What people do not realize is that electronic devices that we use on a day-to-day basis can be used to help bring better education to America through the power of the internet. Most Americans do not notice this problem, know how the technology can benefit schools across the country, or know that it is already working. For the schools that are using this technology in the classroom, there is a noticeable increase in the grades received, resulting from the attentiveness in class. Schools are just now starting to expand their use of technology within the classroom, but most do not have the funds for it. The International Society of Technology (ISTE) is working to help solve this problem. They are trying to bring technology to as many sources as they possibly can, including schools (The ISTE Story). The ISTE is also focused on teaching all of the students how to use the technology they are handed, which is a crucial part of bringing these devices into the world of education. Technology can be a very beneficial use in the classroom, and there are ways to bring it to the rest of the classrooms, but there needs to be a bigger desire for this issue to be overcome. As USF students, we are able to capitalize on this technology by expanding it even further into the university, making it available for each and every student to get the education they deserve. Most people may not think of how immensely technology can influence the level of education that students receive, or might not know that the solution is here. Most schools are Penland 2 trying to catch up and contain their curriculum in order to raise their average grades. They do this by thinking more about how the curriculum is difficult, or by introducing new factors which may change how students understand topics. Some of the issue may stem from a statement from Genan article Troubling Solution To Zilkha made a claim stating that one of the problems that select schools have looked over, is that the cost of hardware and software is too high to implement into low-funded schools. The ISTE is working to solve this by raising money for the schools across the world that need funding for new technology (The ISTE Story 3). Through the power of technology, grades could skyrocket according to SRI International, and the solution to the ongoing problem of grades is continuing to grow with very little change. This problem can be solved through the plan to raise money for the schools that are in need. technology could be entered into a every day curriculum, there would be a drastic improvement in the way complete assignments inside the classroom. Technology can be said to improve grades, but how is it possible to change the grades of students just by introducing technology into their daily curriculum? Many teachers have reported that grades have increased significantly inside of the classroom, and also bring peace outside of the classroom as well (Edutopia 2). According to the SRI International article Effects of Technology on Classrooms and students will be able to be more motivated to complete their work, and it will help raise their self-esteem in and out of the classroom. Through the use of technology, and being able to learn it, one student was able to learn how to make music from his home device. figured out a way to make music by getting the computer to play certain letters by certain powers and it changed the musical tone of the note and he actually wrote a (SRI International 3). Shortly after this began, several students became Penland 3 more motivated to create their own pieces of work and share with the class, bringing the motivation to learn something new, and the self-esteem of knowing what they can be capable of with technology. like the immediate says one teacher, as it is very satisfying to get instant feedback on the work they are completing (SRI International 4). They will be able to interact with the computers all over the world, figuring out how to work things on their own and developing a sense of strategy when it comes to problems behind a screen (SRI International 6). When kids are able to get this kind of feedback, they are able to get any errors fixed as quick as possible, without them slipping into an anxiety of did I do and eventually giving up on the assignment. The self-esteem increase is a direct correlation to the motivational increase. If kids are able to solve their own problems and interact with their work more directly, they will develop a sense of confidence in understanding what they do in school. Given those two great benefits in motivation and self-esteem, there also can be an increase in the amount of time spent collaborating with peers. Giving technology to small groups of kids completing work will open up a new medium of communication. If students are sharing one piece of technology, there will be an increase in the way they help each other navigate and expand their assignments or projects (SRI International 7). a much more facilitating atmosphere because the kids help each other so much on the computer. It changes the style and the tone of the classroom a lot (SRI International If students are able to complete all of these benefits to education, and increase their scores, why not start implementing this now to prove it right? In certain schools throughout the country, teachers have such positive feedback about the world of technology and how it has been improving education. Many teachers have reported that grades have increased significantly inside of the classroom, and also bring peace outside of the classroom as well. Technology is finally getting recognition for repairing the Penland 4 attentiveness and motivation of students in the classroom. In an Edutopia article, there have been teachers that have been able to find so much as an 80% increase in the grades that were given on assignments that required the use of iPad. A teacher in this article also stated that there was an immediate return on the way students were completing their work. It made students able to interact with their assignments and figure out problems much quicker (Edutopia 6). Teachers from 10 out of 17 classrooms observed cited increased use of outside resources as a benefit of using technology, which shows that students are already learning to problem solve themselves by using the outside resources that are at their fingertips, to solve issues they have with their work (Edutopia 9). When technology was introduced, students were even developing design skills and were able to give attention to their audience. One teacher stated also do more stylistic things in terms of how the paper looks, and if there is something they want to emphasize, change the font . . . looking at the words writing in a different way. not just thinking about writing a sentence, doing that, but they are also thinking about, This is a really important  or This is something I want to stand out (SRI International This shows that kids are developing skills outside of what they are learning, and are able to broaden their horizons on future skills that they will need to develop. Richard Overbaugh wrote an article showing that the teachers have adapted to technology very well, and the students have adapted even stronger by increasing their time spent on a device (Overbaugh 9). He states that thousands of schools have already been boosted from a D rated school to a high C, or even low B rating (Overbaugh All of these results have also given proof that students have been more excited to come to class because they will be able to interact with their lessons all day and learn multitudes of skills throughout their years in school. Kids love their devices at home already, so Penland 5 introducing this technology to students in a classroom should yield great results in the way they enter and leave the classroom. As the opinions of technology in the classroom continue to influence grades, it is now time for everyone to spread the awareness of the great effects that it will bring upon each and every kid that enters a school environment. As USF students, we are able to capatilize on this technology every day, but we also can expand to a point where every student can have their hands on a device all day. Sending a donation to the ISTE is the perfect way to get the future started. The ISTE is a foundation that is working for the spread of this technology awareness, and according to one of their mottos, a connected learning environment, is a connected world (The ISTE Story 4). They are looking to raise capital to fund schools with the technology necessary for the better success of future. Parents and teachers of all ages need to come together and gain awareness on the topic, know the benefits, and know that there is already results from the introduction of technology into the everyday curriculum of schools. Today is when we start building our brighter tomorrow. Penland 6 Works Cited Edutopia. Why Integrate Technology into the Curriculum?: The Reasons Are  Edutopia. N.p., 17 Mar. 2008. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. International, SRI. Effects of Technology on Classrooms and  Archived: Effects of Technology on Classrooms and Students. US Department of Education (ED), n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Klein, Joel. The Failure of American  The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, 19 Feb. 2014. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. Overbaugh, Richard C.1, Ruiling2 Lu, and Mark1 Diacopoulos. Changes In Attitudes Toward Instructional Technology Attributed To Completing The ISTE NETS*T Certificate Of Proficiency Capstone  Computers In The Schools 32.3/4 (2015): 240-259. Education Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The ISTE Story. (2016). Retrieved February 12, 2017, from https://www.iste.org/about/iste-story  The Meaning of Colors. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Zilkha, Genan. The Troubling Solution To  Fordham Intellectual Property, Media & Entertainment Law Journal 20.(2010): 667. LexisNexis Academic: : Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.