Nereim !1 James C. Nereim Professor Hannah Lay Composition 2 29 April 2017 We Must Protect Our Rights! Have you ever felt powerless, like you had no control of the situation going on around you, like someone was running a kangaroo court and you were on trial? When you are in that position, you begin to feel like you do not have a say as to what goes on anymore, which causes you to have insecurities and feel undervalued. The government creates so many laws, mostly to keep us safe, but at the same time they can become a little overwhelming. Currently a social movement against gun violence fights for more intense gun laws. We, as college students in the United States of America, are called to vote, because we hold the future in our hands and it is our civic duty. As Americans we should understand why it is important to protect our second amendment rights, and why our founding fathers felt it necessary to include our right to bear arms as an amendment in the first ten. After understanding why Americans should protect this right, then you can start supporting organizations that want to defend this right, and finally you should go out and vote for pro-second amendment legislation. To begin with guns always seem to get thrown under the bus whenever an incident occurs in which people get hurt as a result of an individual who decided to use one as a weapon to harm others. For example, after an incident where a mentally unstable individual shot and killed several innocent American people in a senseless massacre, President Obama attended the memorial and took that opportunity to say that guns are the reason this could have happened, and Nereim !2 that in order to protect the American lives we need to have stricter gun laws (Obama Makes Appeal). First we should understand why shooting occurred? Because of a gun, or rather because an unstable individual got his hands on one? A firearm cannot desire to hurt anyone as it has no form of mental capacity in which to harbor these feelings as an inanimate object, but men and women have the ability to hold grudges and feelings of hate which might cause them to desire to do harm to others. So how can we hold guns responsible for an action someone chose to take? Being students at the University of South Florida, or at any American college campus for that matter, we are the future of our nation. So what value does the right to bear arms have to us as Americans? For starters, the right to bear arms was added to the constitution in the first ten amendments, which means that our founding fathers thought that our right to protect ourselves existed as a fundamental right. Now stricter gun laws are not necessarily a bad step; however, we must consider what steps we are taking to make our society safer. referring of course to the legislation we let pass. Will these actions inhibit our rights, and if we create stricter gun laws, will the government stop there? Or will they try to take away our right to bears arms all together? We must consider everything that could happen as we progress as a nation, similar to the way a game of chess plays out. Will a little give on our part lead to a lot of take on the governments side? It is best to not have to find out, and keeping that decision in the hands of the American people is the best way to keep our rights, and keeping the student bodies of our eligible voters informed (Lewis, R. K.). As long as this issue persists, we have to stick to our gun. An issue as important as this cannot be ignored. If you are American, you should have a desire to stand and fight for what you believe in, and for your rights! We live in the land of the free, and if we allow the government to Nereim !3 control our right to bear arms, who knows if that is where they will stop. In order to preserve our freedoms, Americans must start getting involved and standing up for the rights given to them by their founders. There are a bunch of ways to get involved in the land of the free. For starters you could begin by supporting a variety of pro-gun groups, such as the National Rifle Association (NRA), or the Gun Owners of America (GOA). Groups like these do everything in their power to swing legislation in favor of pro-gun legislation. They have representatives who support them and will fight for the legislation that best serves their cause. Other ways to get involved in this issue include something as simple as executing your civic duty as an American. Go out and vote! It is the best way for the voices of the people to be heard in America. We elect representatives who support our ideals and are our values. These representatives then go and support or fight legislation in place of us. Also when election for president occurs, we get the opportunity to not only vote for who we would like our representatives to vote for, but also what kind of legislation we want to pass or fail. So just get out and vote and allow your voice to be heard, the voice of the people. So, in conclusion, our right to bear arms was put in place so that we might protect ourselves. A right our founding fathers saw fit to bestow upon us. Besides, blaming the gun for a crime only an individual can commit does not make any sense, and constricting our rights as a result of the actions of one person is like punishing the entire class room of people because one person in the class room messed around, except on a much larger scale. As Americans we cannot squander our rights or our freedoms; we have to stand and protect those rights. We cannot just let the government take away what we are granted as American citizens. We have a right to let our voices be heard. We have to get out and vote in order to make a difference in our country or Nereim !4 support organizations and representatives who agree with our views. It is not enough to just agree; you have to attempt to make a difference; you have to go out and vote when the time comes. Not doing so would make us voiceless and render our representative system redundant. Nereim !5 Works Cited CLARKE, KEVIN and JAMES MARTIN. A History of  America, vol. 215, no. 2, 18 July 2016, pp. 31-33. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/ login.aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN=116715836&site=eds-live. DeBRABANDER, FIRMIN. Our Armed  America, vol. 213, no. 6, 14 Sept. 2015, pp. 17-20. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? direct=true&db=aph&AN=109288699&site=eds-live. Lewis, R. K., J. LoCurto, K. Brown, D. Stowell, J. Maryman, A. Dean, T. McNair, D. Ojeda, and J. Siwierka. College Students Opinions on Gun  Journal of Community Health. U.S. National Library of Medicine, June 2016. Web. 03 May 2017. Obama Makes Appeal on Orlando Visit; as Funerals Commence across the City, President Says Threat of Attacks a Good Reason to Tighten U.S. Firearm  Globe & Mail (Toronto, Canada), 2016. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http:// search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgov&AN=edsgcl.455407232&site=eds- live. Pros and Cons of Gun Control Reduce the Number of Guns in  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, WI), 2000. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/ login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgbe&AN=edsgcl.69304590&site=eds-live. Velleco, John. About Gun Owners of America General General, Sen. H.L. Richardson, 2015, gunowners.org/protect.htm.