Lewis 1 Ashley Lewis Hannah Lay ENC1102 3 May 2017 Standardized Testing Students have always been categorized based on intelligence since the beginning of standardized testing. The creation of standardized tested was originally made to see how well caught up schools were on how much they were teaching their students, but now the long-term adverse effect of standardized testing is being brought to light by students and teachers. Standardized testing limits the curriculum that teachers can educate their students on. These tests have been manipulating classrooms and not allowing teachers to portray their courses to the fullest extent. Teachers are often given additional work to give or teach their students that in most cases have nothing to do with the subject that they are teaching. Students often worry that they are not being given the best education due to these circumstances because they are primarily being taught reading comprehension, writing, and math. Although those are critical elements in any education, standardized testing should not be limited to those subjects, and their grades should not jeopardize the future of any student. The University of South Florida (USF) is a college full of diverse students from all different backgrounds, but one thing that they have in common is that they all took standardized tests to get accepted into the university. USF students completely understand what it was like for their whole future to depend on a single test grade. College students are the generation of future leaders, which include teachers and school board directors who will be able to make a difference in how school systems are run. By voicing your opinion, creating a website, or simply organizing Lewis 2 a student group now as a USF college student, getting involved while you are younger is easy and will allow your opinions to be highly valued by older people because they are coming from a direct source created by personal experiences while going to school. Standardized testing scores determine whether or not students are accepted or denied from individual colleges. Students in Florida often take tests such as the Florida End Of Course Assessment Tests (FCAT), the Scholastics Aptitude Test (SAT), or the American College Test (ACT) to determine how well they are doing in school, and how well they would most likely do in the future. Most test creators do not take students into consideration when it comes to anxiety, stress, and all of the pressure placed on them to do well on these tests. Todd Balf talks about how standardized testing is not essential in benefiting the students, nor the college board, in his article titled Story Behind the SAT  despised the SAT not just because of the intense anxiety it caused it was one of the biggest barriers to entry to the colleges they dreamed of attending but also because they know what to expect from the exam and felt that it played clever (Balf). Anxiety, depression, and stress are only three of the many problems that most young students are suffering from simply because of standardized testing. Assessments have always been known for giving people anxiety, but when they determine your future the pressure increases. A student should not be limited to their fullest potential when it comes to education simply because they are not good test takers. The Anxiety and Depression Association of America (ADAA) discusses on their website how many symptoms can cause anxiety, and how badly that can hurt a wellbeing and health. The main causes of depression and anxiety are said to be Lewis 3 Fear of failure. While the pressure to perform can act as a motivator, it can also be devastating to individuals who tie their self-worth to the outcome of a test. Lack of preparation. Waiting until the last minute or not studying at all can leave individuals feeling anxious and overwhelmed. Poor test history. Previous problems or bad experiences with test-taking can lead to a negative mindset and influence performance on future (ADAA). High school students are not given a proper education due to standardized testing and its great impact on a future. College students should care about issues with standardized testing because it directly affects their future and how the world once this generation goes into leadership. Students are not given fair opportunities to things such as scholarships, simply because they are not good test takers. In addition to that, the subjects that most students like, or are interested in are limited by the fact that the subjects are no longer fully taught because standardized testing topics take up so much of the curriculum. Teachers are being forced to teach students about topics that do not concern their subject because of how important these standardized tests are. In high school, students are meant to find out what they are interested in, rather than worrying about getting into college. If more students were given the opportunity to become acutely aware of what they would like to do in the future while they are in high school, then they would be able to have a fairer test that is on the subjects of their choosing (rather than what the state is required to do). College students are given the freedom to choose what they would like to pursue, and they fully understand the journey that it took to get to college in the first place. Often, students wish that school boards would change the way schools are run, but if nobody Lewis 4 stands up for that, then how can anything change? The future leaders of this generation are the perspectives and voices who will make the most impactful differences on the future. USF has a lot of student organizations that allow students to express their opinions on subjects that matter to them. The student organization handbook is found on the website. This manual allows you to create your student organization as long as it fits all of the requirements listed in the book. Student Organizations are the most impactful on and off of the campus because they portray how college students feel, and what they are willing to do to make a change in their society and the things that they feel strongly about. One way to help out as a college student is to create a student organization, but it is understandable if that amount of time and dedication is not available to you. By attending your old high school board meetings, or becoming an engaged part of your community, you will be able to speak up and make a difference in how the educational system is run. Many high school counselors are willing to work with college students to get their opinion on how they can change education for the better. Most principles and faculty members take into account how the students feel as they are going to high school. High school is the most important age for students to feel like they are in a safe, welcoming environment due to the amount of pressure placed on them to do well. Standardized tests add to that amount of stress and pressure and do not even benefit the college board (considering they could potentially be missing out on admitting brilliant students who are not good test takers.) Technology has become such a large part of society that it has become the primary outlet for information for school students. By doing things such as creating websites or blogs, College students can voice their opinions on how they feel about how they were tested in high school, and why these things should change for the better.  is a great source to create Lewis 5 websites, blogs, or other social pages to interact with your peers on. In addition to Wix, other sources found online to support this cause is by joining a group such as the Institute for Democratic Education in America (IDEA). The IDEA is a group of adults and students who are trying to change the way education is taught in America. They have many firsthand accounts of teachers and students discussing why they stand against standardized testing. College students possess so much power in their hands to make a difference in society, without even realizing it. College students are young, and extremely opinionated on how they would like to be treated, and how others should be addressed. These students all come from different backgrounds and experiences and should be able to share how they feel freely without being humiliated because of it. Younger students should not have to go through the pressure of taking a standardized test simply because of the state requirements. If enough people (adults and students) speak out to make a change in this area of education, then it will make a dramatic difference in how kids will be taught in the future. By allowing students to grow mentally well and giving them the opportunity to explore the things that they would like to do in the future (without the stress of preparing at young ages) then the generations to come will flourish. Standardized testing is limiting both mentally, and educationally and the practice needs to be eliminated or substituted with something of the choice. Lewis 6 Works Cited Balf, Todd. The Story Behind the SAT  The New York Times. The New York Times, 06 Mar. 2014. Web. <https://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/09/magazine/the-story-behind-the-sat- Create Your Free Website Wix.com. N.p., n.d. Web. FCAT. N.p., n.d. Web. <http://www.fldoe.org/accountability/assessments/k-12-student- assessment/history-of-fls-statewide-assessment/fcat/>. Institute for Democratic Education in America IDEA. N.p., n.d. Web. <http://www.democraticeducation.org/>. Test  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. <https://www.adaa.org/living-with-anxiety/children/test-anxiety>. University of Florida  South Atlantic Bulletin 18.4 (1953): 19. Web. Florida, University Of South. Welcome to the University of South Florida Tampa,  University of South Florida. N.p., n.d. Web.