Hegenbarth 1 Fritz Hegenbarth Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.909 21 April 2017 Stop the Invasion of Privacy In the last two years the US government has been trying to take advantage of new technology to provide more security. The problem with this is that the privacy for the citizens will be gone if the government gets to do it because they will put cameras everywhere, tap phones, check every email that is sent, hear what every person says and see everything. As said by Steve Mansfield-Devine, all, law enforcement organizations demanding access is nothing new. They have long had the ability to intercept telephone conversations or enter and search (21). The US government since long ago has had the ability to hear conversations and search their places but with an order that grants them access. Well, if the citizens do not make their rights known and show the government they do not want their right of privacy to be violated the government will be able to hear, see, and record whatever they want. As said by Tim Ring, want both protection from criminals and to preserve their own online (2). Increasing the security by using technology cannot be done if the citizens privacy is not invaded so this strategy should be taken out but the government is still insisting. Some people agree with the fact that their privacy is invaded because they do not do anything bad, but they have not thought about the consequences of it. Even though they are not doing something wrong they will not be able to feel alone in their homes because a government agent can be hearing or send business emails without knowing if the government agent is saving them or using it for his own benefit. The Save the Children organization should stop this from Hegenbarth 2 happening and protect their rights before it is too late and no way back. Trading privacy for security is something that should never happen because privacy is a right, privacy should always be protected because everyone needs their time to be alone. The Save the Children organization should stop the invasion of privacy now because once it is taken it will be really hard to recover it. Privacy should always be protected because it is a right that can be found on the Fourth Amendment, right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be which basically states the right to be left alone, not to be followed, and not being searched. Privacy is a right that should always be taken care of because without it a lot of negative things can happen like being recorded in the bathroom, emails read and phone calls heard by a government agent, being followed at any time and having all of their data collected hacked and sold to other people. The benefits of protecting privacy is that the US citizens will have a comfortable life without feeling that someone is always at their back and be themselves while speaking because of the fear that the government can do something against them. As said by Tamara Diney & et al, is based on the perceived threats, or risks, to security in the environment including the Internet (26). At the same time freedom of speech will be conserved because if the government gets to record everything a person says their thoughts might be one but what they say will be different because of the fear that the government will make them something. Technology lacks the security to protect all the data collected from the citizens because the government might have a very good person that protects the data from being leaked but there Hegenbarth 3 will always be someone better that can get through the security of the government and do what they want with it like sell it or publish it (Waleed & et al 3314). Save the Children is an organization are dedicated to give every child around the world what every child deserves, giving them what they need to grow healthy and happy. Save the Children have not realized the problem of losing their privacy because they are only thinking about the good part which is security. They have to think about the negative effects it will have and how it will affect them. Also, they have to protect their rights and many of them do not know privacy is a right and is stated in the Fourth Amendment. If they get to lose this right who knows what right they will lose later and will not be able to take it back. With all the technology in the present day everything can be recorded and saved so anything that a person does or says will be saved and who knows who will be able to hear it. As said by Christopher Slobogin, advances have vastly expanded the monitoring ability. Wiretapping and bugging have been joined by space-age eavesdropping and computer-hacking techniques that make interception of oral and written communications infinitely easier than in J. Edgar day. Observation of physical activities, once reliant on naked eye observation and simple devices like binoculars, can now be carried out with night scopes and thermal imagers, sophisticated telescopic and magnification devices, tracking tools and detection (3). why privacy at this point is more important than security because who will live comfortably knowing everything they have said or done is recorded and seen by someone in the government. Preventing the US government to take the privacy of the citizens will be a benefit because their rights will be preserved and they will live comfortably knowing that they will not be watched and seen by other person they do not know. To prevent the US government from taking over privacy the Save the Children Hegenbarth 4 organization need to speak up to their right of privacy. Every time they feel that their privacy is being violated they have to use the Fourth Amendment and this way the government will not be able to take privacy away. As said by Simone privacy is seriously endangered and is becoming increasingly an international (2). Because it will not be done at once, it will be done little by little it is a benefit for the citizens because it can be prevented by spreading the word to other citizens that do not know that privacy is a right. To stop privacy invasion take legal action because with the help of the Fourth Amendment you can always stop someone from taking away your privacy. As more and more people get to do this it will be impossible for the government to take over it. In conclusion, trading privacy for security is something that should never happen because privacy is a right, privacy should always be protected because everyone needs their time to be alone. The Save the Children organization should stop the invasion of privacy now because once it is taken it will be really hard to recover it. Hegenbarth 5 Works Cited Dinev, Tamara, Paul Hart, and Michael R. Mullen. Internet Privacy Concerns and Beliefs about Government Surveillance - An Empirical  The Journal of Strategic Information Systems 17.3, 2008, 214-33, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0963868707000492. Accessed April 27 2017. Simone. IT-security and privacy: design and use of privacy-enhancing security mechanisms. Springer, 2001, http://www.springer.com/us/book/9783540421429. Accessed April 27 2017. Mansfield-Devine, Steve. The battle for  Network Security, vol. 2016, no. 6, 2016, pp. 11-15, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/journal/13534858/2016/6. Accessed April 27 2017. Ring, Tim. data in their hands: big data, mass surveillance and Vol. 2016, 2016, pp. 5-10, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361372316300616. Accessed April 27 2017. Slobogin, Christopher. Privacy at Risk: The New Government Surveillance and the Fourth Amendment. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2007, Accessed April 27 2017. Waleed, Al-Museelem, Chunlin Li, and Naji Hasan A.H. The Faults of Data Security and Privacy in the Cloud Computing, 2014. http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary;jsessionid=256105289C77B11D97A2F6C6 DB4F14E6?doi=10.1.1.666.5058. Accessed April 27 2017. Hegenbarth 6 Accessed April 27 2017.