Justin Cox Adam Carter Project 3 April 24, 2017 Housing is a Basic Human Right Families across America are losing their homes due to the necessity to communities by conforming many areas of low-income to middle class taste. Gentrification is a method used to urban areas by replacing low-income residents with more wealthier ones. Right to the City was founded in 2007 with the purpose of combating the displacement of low-income families by creating neighborhoods that provide static rent rates. Since 2007, Right to the City has funded multiple programs and organized peaceful protest across the Nation in efforts to diminish the unfortunate effects of gentrification. With your help, we can ensure every family threatened by gentrification has a place to call home. Help keep low-income families housed by donating a fraction of your time or funds towards the Right to the City movement. Cities across America are currently in the process of due to the effects of gentrification. Landlords are raising rent rates in order to attract a new demographic of residents, in turn forcing the current tenants out. According to Larry Schwartz, almost 8% of neighborhoods Nationwide have experienced gentrification (Schwartz, 5 Surprising Cities Where Gentrification is Displacing the That equates to millions of families being forced out of their homes and left with no place to live. Cities such as Portland, Nashville and Charleston are experiencing some of our worse cases of gentrification. In Portland, 60% of low-income neighborhoods have experienced gentrification. Similar to Nashville, where 50% of black residents have been driven out of their homes due to an increase in rent rates. Charlestons case is the most alarming; for the first time in 6 decades the town is majority white (Schwartz, 5 Surprising Cities Where Gentrification is Displacing the Gentrification has caused many low-income to lose the place they call home, forcing them to relocate to worse neighborhoods or reach out to relatives or friends for a temporary place to stay. On the other hand, families that decide to stay in their homes following rent increases are forced to find additional ways to earn income. Larry Schwartz of The Salon writes, are compensating by taking second jobs or running up debt by paying other expenses on their credit (Schwartz, Larry). These families are being forced to fend for their rights to have a place to call home. They have to make a choice between relocating to a worse neighborhood but living comfortably, or staying in their current home and taking on a second job or building more debt just to make rent. a lose-lose situation; in either decision they make, their lives will be worse than the life they had before facing gentrification. Phylissa Bilal, a 33 year-old mother of three, is experiencing the harsh reality of gentrification. She currently lives in an apartment complex in Washington D.C. which has recently seen rent increases, forcing several of her neighbors to find other places to live (Nevins, Sean. Gentrification: Hundreds Of DC Residents Being Forced From Their neighborhood is being targeted because it is classified as a by local law enforcement, meaning it is an area which has high crime activity. In addition, her neighborhood is filled families that identify as poor, who, after experiencing rent increases, are being forced to relocate (Nevins, Sean). Bilal currently lives paycheck to paycheck in order to meet her financial needs and make rent. She knows that if rent rates continue to rise, she will be forced to find housing elsewhere. Her biggest fear is having to raise her children in a homeless shelter, as she has no friends or family that she can reach out to who are able to house herself and her three children. We can all help Bilal and others like her by taking the necessary steps to reduce the occurrence of gentrification in our Nation. Support the Right to the City organization by volunteering a fraction of your time or donating any amount of money. Right to the City is constantly looking for passionate individuals to spread and build the network of those who share their same principles. If you are great at networking and meeting new people, I encourage you to volunteer as a recruitment driver for RTTC. If that sound like you, there are also opportunities to volunteer as an event organizer and media makers. There are various ways to support the fight against gentrification and there is sure to be one that fits your interest and financial capabilities. Any amount of time and dollar amount helps prevent families from losing their homes. In addition, volunteer at your local soup kitchen and talk to families and individuals about their personal lives and current positions. Even simple conversation is helping because it lets people know that here is someone out there that cares and is willing to listen to their problems. Regardless of your financial status or schedule, there is bound to be some sort of action you can take in order to help low-income families reserve their right to their homes. For more information regarding Right to the City and their organization, visit righttothecity.org. There, you will find recent stories, news, reports, and additional ways to take action. It is our moral obligation to help those who are unable to help themselves. Low-income families are unable to defend their rights because of the lack of funds or knowledge necessary to do so. But with your help, we can reduce the risk of low-income families losing their homes to the effects of gentrification and ensure every family has a place to call home. Join the fight with Right to the City and take a stand against gentrification. simple; homes are a basic human right, not a commodity. With your help, we can ensure every family and individual has a place to call home. Work Cited: Florida, Richard. Complicated Link Between Gentrification and The Atlantic, City Lab. Online Article. Sep 8, 2015 Nevins, Sean. Gentrification: Hundreds Of DC Residents Being Forced From Their Mint Press News. Online Article. April 20, 2015. Phillips, Dawn, and Mark Swier Right to the City. N.p., Jan. 2007. Web. 29 2017. Schwartz, 5 Surprising Cities Where Gentrification is Displacing the Salon Online Article. Friday, June 17, 2016 Valoy, Patricia. Reasons Why Gentrification Hurts Communities of Everyday Feminism. Magazine Article. September 12, 2014