Running Head: CALL TO ACTION CUBA AND US RELATIONS 1 Call to Action Cuba and US Relations Alissa Crotty University of South Florida CALL TO ACTION CUBA AND US RELATIONS 2 In the 1960s during the height of the Cold War, Cuba aligned itself with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republic (USSR). A result of this was for the United States to enforce a holistic embargo on Cuba that in recent years has been drastically amended and partially lifted. The most recent legislation has been a push to completely abolish the embargo on Cuba. However, the United States needs to have in place parts of the embargo against Cuba due to their human rights violations and the need for a free market in Cuba and in order for this to be done people need to contact their local legislators to inform them of the desire for part of the embargo to remain until Cuba remedies these issues. The Cuban people have a drastic need for a free market. During the Cuba was its worst economic crisis since Fidel Castro seized power in (Sweeny, 1994). As a result, Fidel Castro began to allow certain aspects of a free market such as certain private business being allowed to exist and as a result the economy began to improve. The lack of a free market in Cuba has caused a of economic growth and (Sweeny, 1994). The lack of a free market has most drastically effected the Cuban people. Due to the communist market that Cuba has long been modeled after the people of Cuba have routinely come on hard times. After the USSR fell and Cuba had used up the resources left behind from the regime, Cuba began to falter and misfortune fell on the Cuban people. Without the generous Soviet oil subsidy, transportation and industry were (Sheller, 1999). During this time Cuba was to produce enough food, people began to go (Sweeny, 1994). Due to the country being on the brink of failing and the Cuban people resorting to banana peels just to feel something substantial in their stomachs and with the populace suffering an epidemic of blindness and paralysis linked to vitamin (Sheller, 1999) Castro was CALL TO ACTION CUBA AND US RELATIONS 3 forced to legalize the U.S. dollar. Following this the Cuban economy began to slowly improve. However, the improvement that the Cuban people have seen is limited as military controls about 60% of the 2015). The lack of a free market has most heavily impacted the Cuban people as and high prices have also led food supplies to be sourced on the black market. With these problems, investors with failing businesses often suffer through bribery and jail time in (Chavy, 2015). Cuba needs to make palpable moves towards a free market in order for the Cuban people to have a higher standard of living and more opportunities both socially and economically. For decades, the United States has had a difficult time moving forward with Cuban relations. Following the Cuban Revolution, Cuba became a communist state where everything was regulated through the government. This led to a society that had injustices and crimes that are often seen in dictatorships and other communist regimes. The main issue with Cuba has been the human rights violations that are committed in Cuba. Cuba has violated the Labour Organization that it has ratified, specifically regarding freedom of association, collective bargaining, protection of wages, and prohibitions on forced (Cuba, 2016). The state also does not allow for any criticism of Cuba and those who do are incarcerated in prisons that are vastly overcrowded and underregulated. To this day, Cuba also does not acknowledge human rights monitoring as a activity and denies legal status to local human rights (Cuba, 2016). Due to many human rights violations, the United States has allowed for Cuban immigrants to seek political asylum to escape the Castro Regime. During the Cuban Revolution, many affluent Cuban individuals and families chose to emigrate, with the overwhelming majority choosing the area around Miami (Walter and Ingo, 2016). Part of the end of the embargo Cuba has requested that the United States no longer allow Cubans to receive political asylum. Last CALL TO ACTION CUBA AND US RELATIONS 4 year President Obama chose to end the wet-foot, dry-foot policy which has received widespread criticism due to the persisting need for Cubans to seek political asylum. Historically Cuba has been notorious for human rights violations, but in recent years they have changed tactics. The government relies less on long-term prison sentences to punish its critics, but short-term arbitrary arrests of human rights defenders, independent journalists, and others have increased dramatically in recent (Cuba, 2015). The short detentions that are one of the most common tactics employed by the Cuban government are done preemptively in order to prohibit people from gathering or meeting. repressive tactics employed by the government include beatings, public acts of shaming, and the termination of (Cuba, 2015). The Cuban government has established new legislation and practices as a show of an attempt to improve human rights but the country has yet to put the new legislation to action and practice. As a result, the people of the country are still subjected to human rights violations. updating its Labor Code in 2014, Cuba continues to violate conventions of the International Labour Organization that it has ratified, specifically regarding freedom of association, collective bargaining, protection of wages and wage payment. While the formation of independent unions is technically allowed by law, in practice Cuba only permits one confederation of state-controlled unions, the Central Union of (Cuba, 2015). Due to the conditions that the people of Cuba undergo the United States needs to maintain most the embargo against Cuba namely the aspects regarding business. This can be done by people contacting their local and state representatives and informing them of their wishes for the partial embargo against Cuba. The key is to either write a letter stating dissent for completely abolishing the embargo against Cuba and to mail or better yet fax it or to call the office. The most important part of this is to include an address and phone number so CALL TO ACTION CUBA AND US RELATIONS 5 that you are marked a constituent. When an individual is marked as a constituent they are much more likely to have their letter read and for it to be taken more seriously. This is important because Cuba is at a point where it is vital for the United States to be involved in their economy for the Cuban economy to be successful and play a major role in the global market. Without the United involvement Cuba has limited ability to grow their economy giving the country its incentive to fulfill whatever requirement the United government deems necessary. Until Cuba improves their market and begins to make moves to establish a free market and the human rights issues and lack of rights are amended the United States should not completely abolish the embargo against Cuba. The lack of a free market and the human rights issues are two immense and impactful issues that have deep social, economic, and humanitarian effects and consequences due to their current situation. For people to contact their representatives would allow for there to be a stronger opposition to the abolishing of the embargo and give Cuba the strong push it needs in order to greatly fix these issues. Word Count: 1217 Running Head: CALL TO ACTION CUBA AND US RELATIONS 6 References 2015. Cuba. https://www.hrw.org/world-report/2016/country-chapters/cuba#6a43ba. 2016. Cuba. https://www.hrw.org/world-report/2017/country-chapters/cuba. Chavy, Alicia (2015). Inc. Long Road to the free GRI. Retrieved 16 April 2017, from http://globalriskinsights.com/2015/06/cuba-inc-a-long-way-to-go-before- opening-its-doors-to-the-free-market/. Sheller, Glenn (1999). Failure of Communism in Retrieved 16 Apr 2017, from http://ashbrook.org/publications/onprin-v7n5-sheller/. Sweeny, John (1994). the Cuban trade Embargo Should Be Retrieved 16 Apr 2017, from http://www.heritage.org/trade/report/why-the-cuban-trade-embargo-should- be-maintained. Walter, Roy & Ingo, Roy (2016). Understanding a Cuban  Independent Review, vol. 20 iss. 4 531-546.