Almamri 1 Rawad Al Mamri Professor Williams ENC1102.091F16 April 30, 2017 Protection of Endangered Animals They are a wide variety of animal and plant species; whose mere existence contributes to the efficient functioning of the ecosystem. America is endowed with wide array of plants and animals but unfortunately, many of these species are not doing well over the past decades due to many factors but largely human. Endangered animals are those animals whose continued existence in their natural habitat is not guaranteed and may face the likelihood of going extinct. The main issue that is facing these endangered creatures is their protection. The protection of endangered species is not an easy process. To understand how hard of a process it can be, we have to understand the reasons for these animals to be labeled as endangered species. Some of the common reasons animals become endangered includes humans hunting animals for consumption, for use in clothing outfits such as fur, leather products, among others. Other reasons include environmental degradation to the extent that the natural habitat becomes hostile for their continued existence. Exploring these reasons can help us come up with solutions for protection that can benefit the animals and help us in saving them. Several animals have been listed as endangered and are under the protection of the Almamri 2 government. The Endangered Species Act was enacted in 1973 to provide conservation for all the species that are endangered or threatened throughout all or a significant portion of their range and conservation of their ecosystem on which they depend. An estimated 1700 species of plants and animals in the USA alone have been federally listed as endangered. Some of the top most endangered species include tiger, polar bear, pacific walrus, magellanic penguin, leatherback turtle, Bluefin tuna, mountain gorilla, monarch butterfly, javan rhinoceros, giant panda among several others (Baillie, 2004). For a species to gain protection under the Endangered Species Act, it must first be listed by appropriate authority as or In order for a specie to be listed, a proposal or petition can be submitted by an organization or the public. The the government lists the specie and designates protection of its critical habitat, which are specific areas with physical and biological features that require special management in order to conserve the specie. A recovery plan is then put in place that dictates actions to be take to ensure the species recovery. But why should the government or anyone for that matter, go through all the rigors of protecting an endangered specie? it a natural process for animals to go extinct? Well, that sounds true but the process that is termed has been significantly influenced by human activities such as hunting, recreational activities, emission of hazardous gases and uncontrolled industrialization. According to a study by (Ceballos, 2015), titled Modern Human- Induced Species Losses: Entering the Sixth Mass the research estimates that humans activities accelerates extinction of many species over a hundred fold in the last century. These processes have almost irreversibly affected the natural flow of things in the ecosystem. Almamri 3 Protecting endangered species is critical because the ecosystem, which the human beings heavily depend on for their continued existence, is maintained by the existence of the variety of plants and animals. Apart from the medicinal, agricultural, aesthetic, ecological and economic values attached to these species of animals and plants, they individually have rights to exist on the planet just like humans do too. It is also interesting to know how dependent the human species is on the natural functioning of the ecosystem. It is true that technology can be used in several ways to render some of the services nature offers human for free, such as the manufacture of fats, sugar and other food products artificially, the natural flavor and taste is always missing from these artificial products. Nature renders several essential services to the human race that cannot otherwise be substituted with any artificial means. The fragrance of the rain forest, flowers and natural gardens; the healing effect of absorbing in natural air, sunlight and ocean sounds; the vital role of pollination carried out by insects and, especially bees. But the question is, does an animal or plant has to have an economic value to have the right to exist? In fact, many times the benefits of plants and animals are not obvious. To put into perspective how important the natural ecosystem is to the continued existence of human beings, imagine that humans inhabit a new planet where there is no biodiversity. Imagine that the new planet has no trees, animals, insects, rich marine life, etc. and that humans would have to artificially manufacture every burger, steak, fruits, food they eat. How would that be a life? Therefore, the very existence of the rich biodiversity, without an economic value on them, sustains human life. In fact, a study by ecologist Robert Costanza and his team of ecologists Almamri 4 estimated that the biosphere provides around $33 trillion a year (Constanza, 1997). As at the time of this study, the entire global economy produced around $18 trillion a year, that is about half what the economic worth of the biosphere. If you take the economic value of the biosphere and compare it to the wonder and beauty it provides, how much more would that be worth? In order to encourage the public and other organizations fighting for animal rights, it is worth looking at a few success stories of endangered species. The bald eagle for example, were only about 500 in the 1960s. Bald eagle is an American symbol and the actions of the government in banning the use of chemicals that killed the birds, among other actions, resuscitated the population to around 7000 in the 2000s, according to National Wildlife Federation. The Florida Panther was on the brink of extinction in the late 1980s. In fact, there were only around 30 panthers as at 1989, according to the 1989 census. The Endangered Species Act offered protection to this beautiful wild animal and the population is picking up, though slowly. The Gray Wolf, Grizzly Bear, Peregrine Falcon and Red-Cocaded Woodpecker are all famous endangered species whose stories show that humans can still save endangered species if just enough people and the government put a little effort. Beyond the knowledge of endangered species, everyone is encouraged to take specific actions to continue to protect the natural ecosystem for obvious and non-obvious reasons discussed earlier. Some of the actions to take include as simple as learning about endangered species and sharing information about endangered species. Joining an organization that fights for the protection of animal rights is another step towards protecting endangered species. Advocating for the enlisting of endangered animals under the Endangered Protection Act is an Almamri 5 active participation in taking the fight against extinction to the next level. It is important that the mass media, and even social media platforms now which have wider audience, can be used to speak out for animal rights to live. A social media meme about protecting endangered animals can go viral and draw attention to the rights of animals, it just takes an individual to do that. Works Cited Baillie, Jonathan, Craig Hilton-Taylor, and Simon N. Stuart. 2004 IUCN red list of threatened species: a global species assessment. Iucn, 2004. Ceballos, Gerardo, et al. &quot;Accelerated modern species losses: Entering the sixth mass extinction.&quot; Science advances 1.5 (2015): e1400253. Costanza, Robert, et al. &quot;The Value of the Ecosystem Services and Natural Capital (1997).&quot; The Globalization and Environment Reader (2016): 117.