Su 1 Yang Su Sarah Basil ENC1102.106S17 16 April 2017 College Students With Vehicle Today, due to the popularity of vehicles, numbers of college students have their own car on campus. A car makes it easier for college students to travel, it is also indispensable in daily life. But almost all college students are starting their first driving career in their college life, that means most of them are novices and even some students have just passed a license.This situation not only affects the safety of the students but also the traffic safety near the campus.So the safety of college students is very important. Drunk driving, speeding, running red light often occurs around the campus. This essay is teaching college students how to avoid such incidents. For the safety of students should also increase the university should increase the college traffic inspections. USF is a university with a large Floor Area, traffic is dominated by private cars and many student apartments are located around the campus, in such a complex road traffic accident is inevitable, in order to reduce the traffic accident rate, Traffic education for usf students is very necessary. Many college in the United State also have similar situations to USF. I found the information show a survey of college students driving on campus, the 215 ranked National Universities, State University in Michigan topped the list of schools where the most students had cars on campus for the 2015-2016 school year at 98 percent, of which more than eighty percent of the students live outside the campus(Jordan). So many cars brought great pressure to the university parking spaces. spend twenty minutes looking for Su 2 parking spaces every school said from Zhen Tian. He is an international student study in USF. Although there are many parking spaces in the USF campus, it will take ten to twenty minutes to arrive at the parking lot during peak hours, some students are late for parking spaces. For this kind of thing only planning your time or ahead of time to avoid late class. So planning your time is the best solution. Some students are speeding up on campus in order not to be late for class, this behavior is very dangerous for pedestrian safety. As we know, there are many sidewalks on campus and most roads speed limits fifteen miles, skateboarders and bicyclists are considered pedestrians but they are traveling faster than someone who is just walking. As a driver need to pay special attention for them. Driving in campus is more dangerous than others area, no matter under what circumstances should be careful to drive not speeding. There also have some students are weak to traffic law awareness, they always do some illegal behavior, such as use a mobile device while driving or drunk driving. Students often have the fluke mind when them do something dangerous. Senate bill SB 52 (Florida traffic law) prohibits drivers in Florida from typing into a virtual keyboard and sending or reading messages. However, a driver can only be charged for the violation if they are cited for another motor vehicle violation. If officers pull a driver over for another offense and see that the driver was also texting, drivers would be subject to a $30 fine on the first offense.If texting results in a crash, the driver would be assessed six points.Points lead to increased insurance rates(Mynews 13). Violation of traffic rules not only for their own safety and that of others but also by the threat of high fines. College students is a part of young people, they like to party and also drink a lot in the party. When they are drunk, they may make some dangerous things. Some of them have the Su 3 fluke mind, they think that consciousness is clear enough drive to home and the accident often happened like this. Another factor which may also contribute to people driving under the influence of alcohol aside from their mental state, personality, or background, is the direct effect of alcohol on their brains. When people are drunk, consciousness and reaction become relatively slow, weakening perceived ability(Marsha). The risk of a driver under the influence of alcohol being killed in a vehicle accident is at least eleven times that of drivers without alcohol in their system. Encourage drivers to take taxis or public transport home after using alcohol. For the safety of yourself and others, please do not drunk driving in the end of your party also have the responsibility to urge friends do not drink driving. In the United States, DUI and alcohol-related crashes produce an estimated $45 billion in damages every year. Drink driving may face imprisonment. So plan to travel and return routes before drinking is necessary. Safety is the most important thing when driving, there is no reason to ignore safety. Vehicles bring great convenience to college students in the law, college age is allowed to drive, but we may inadvertently violate traffic regulations, so college students driving need to be more cautious. For example, many people are not aware of the importance of seat belts. When People drive a car, they usually do not care the seat belts. They think that cannot bring any protection for them, and they feel uncomfortable. Speed of driving would also be a big problem in college. Students are too confident for their skills of driving. That usually leads them to speeding in order to satisfied their pleasure. That also greatly increase the frequency of the car accidents. That is why college students need to develop the good habits to drive, such as fasten seatbelt every time, comply with traffic lights, do not speeding. As passengers should also have good habits, do not take the drunk car, do not distract the driver. I want USF students Su 4 join an organization to promote safe driving and encourage students often review traffic regulations, do something remind people the importance about safe driving. All in all, the vehicle is a convenient tool for our college students to live, We should use it correctly. Safe driving is a lesson that every college student must have taken. For safety, people must drive the car safely.If everyone can follow the traffic rules, the frequency of car accidents would be decreased. Following the traffic rules also is the best way to protect their own safety. Su 5 Works Cited Friedman, Jordan. Universities Where the Most Students Bring Cars to Campus  N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Texting while driving ban passes, goes to Gov. Rick  News 13 - Orlando News, Central Florida Weather & Traffic. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Texting while driving ban passes, goes to Gov. Rick . CFN 13. Retrieved 2 May 2013. Florida Cell Phone & Texting and Driving . DrivingLaws.org. Retrieved 20 June 2014. Bates, Marsha E. Journal of Studies on Alcohol and  The Correspondence between Saliva and Breath Estimates of Blood Alcohol Concentration: Advantages and Limitations of the Saliva . Journal of Studies in Alcohol, 1 Jan. 1993. Web. 13 Mar. 2013. Traffic accidents continue to plague  The Oracle. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.