Hansil 1 Leah Hansil Adam Carter ENC 1102 4/18/17 GMOs: The Future of Food When sitting at the dinner table, the first thought in your mind probably is not whether your meal contains genetically modified organisms. But in fact, in the United States today, a huge proportion of the most commonly grown commodity crops are genetically engineered (Weise). This new technology has made it possible to create foods such as seedless watermelons and cotton candy flavored grapes. While these items are nice, GMOs can go above and beyond and have the potential to solve some of the biggest food related problems. However, many people are unsure of this new science and question its safety. There are hundreds of benefits that genetically modified organisms can bring us, and you can help unlock them by simply writing a letter to your state representative showing your support. To understand the benefits of GMOs, first you need to know what they are. According to the scientists at Live Science, a genetically modified organism, or GMO, is an organism that has had its DNA altered or modified in some way through genetic engineering. In most cases, the DNA is coming from another natural organism (Ag Biosafety). The purpose for doing this is so we can achieve desired characteristics in our food. However, this mixing of DNAs draws concerns from some consumers as the process seems unnatural. Many are concerned that allergies might prevent people from being able to consume foods that are mixed. For example, one might be allergic to apples but not grapes. If scientist genetically modified apples to be the Hansil 2 size of grapes, that person may not know if consuming that food will lead to a medical problem for them. On the other hand, the definite benefits of genetically modifying foods seem irreplaceable. On a larger scale, GMOs can improve the environment, better our overall health, and may even be the answer to world hunger. With problems such as a growing population, and rapid climate change, GMOs are a viable solution. They environmental contamination by fewer pesticide applications, less soil erosion due to less frequent agricultural operations and lower pressure on land resources due to increase (Lovei 93). Another large-scale benefit of genetic engineering is the ability to add vitamins and nutrients needed by a population. In an article written by the Huffington Post, it is stated that nearly a million children die each year from Vitamin A deficiency (Robbins). Through the science of GMOs, the genes from foods high in Vitamin A can be mixed with other foods to make our diets contain more of a much needed vitamin. This ability will not only prevent many deaths around the world but will generally improve the health of its consumers. Finally, they can play a large roll in solving world hunger. It was predicted back in 1978 by Thomas Malthus that the population would increase much more rapidly than food production could keep up with (Malthus). This theory has proved to be true a recent statement from the Food and Agriculture Organization claims that world food production will need to rise by 70% to keep up with the growing population. Foods can be genetically modified to make average foods bigger, therefore creating more food per seed. Foods can also be modified to be resistant from potential harmers such as bugs and weather conditions that would make farm land unsuitable. This is a very viable way to increase food production and solve the food shortage problem. GMOs also have small scale benefits that can affect you and your family back home. Hansil 3 When making the choice to buy and consume GMOs, you are making the choice of healthier, more flavorful food for you and your family. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations states that one of the positive of GMOs is that farmers can produce more nutritious food. Any food can be modified to have harmful components removed or beneficial ones added. Oils can be modified to have less transfat which will improve overall cardiovascular health and in the last decade, scientists have modified fruits and vegetables to offer higher levels of anti-oxidant vitamins to help ward of cancer and disease. These added nutrients can make sure we are getting enough to maintain optimum health and fight malnutrition. Foods can also be modified to be free of commonly known allergens. Another point to be made is that of cost. More food is being produced a lot easier which means the price of these foods should be considerable less. Even further, foods such as potatoes are now being modified to bruise less easily during transport which means the lowering of prices as well. Showing support for GMOs will in the long run be beneficial for your wallet as well as your health. The best way to show support for genetically modified foods and to allow them to bring all these benefits to our world is as simple writing a letter to your state representative. These representatives are there to be our voice on pressing issues such as genetically modifying or engineering foods. If we express our support for the science, then they will vote for bills to be passed that make the process easier for the companies and scientists behind GMOs. It also shows the grocery stores that there is a demand for GMOs and therefore, more of them will be purchased. If you are not sure what exactly to say in the letter, go onto kopojamo.wixsite.com/gmoeducation. A pre written letter has already been uploaded so that sending one to a representative is as easy as signing your name, licking the envelope, and putting it in the mailbox. Hansil 4 Developments in science such as the ability to modify and engineer foods and animals are what improve our way of life. Without the support behind genetically modifying foods, every possible benefit they can bring will not be realized. The benefits it has for our environment and ourselves is undisputable. To improve our health, our own, and the overall survival of both, genetically modified organisms need to be a large part of everyday life. As consumers, we have the power to make that decision. We can decide to support GMOs and the scientists behind them easily just by sending a letter to the representative who has a voice that can make the change. Hansil 5 Works Cited Bodnar, Anastasia. Promise of GMOs: Biology Fortified, Inc N.p., 19 Feb. 2104. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. says Food Production Must Rise by The Population Institute. N.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Forman, Emily. Modified Foods: Is It As Bad As It Kentucky English Bulletin, vol. 66, no. 1, Fall 2016, pp. 66-69. EBSCO Lallanilla, Marc. Facts About Genetically Modified LiveScience. Purch, 11 Jan. 2016. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Lovei, G.L. Risks and Benefits of Tansgenic HorNET. Google Scholar. PDF 03 Mar. 2016 Questions Answered  AgBiosafety for Educators. University of Nebraska , n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Robbins, John. GMOs Help End World The Huffington Post. Thehuffingtonpost.com. 01. Aug. 2011. Web. 12 Apr. 2017 Weise, Elizabeth. Engineered Foods Q & USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 28 Oct. 2012. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Studies Proving GMOs are Harmful? Not if Science Genetic Literacy Project. N.p., 01 Mar. 2107. Web. 12 Apr. 2017.