Lando 1 Alex Lando Professor Gocinski ENC 1102 3 May 2017 Concussions in the NFL The NFL has been around for almost 100 years and topic of concussions is still a touchy subject among players, coaches, and executives. In 2015 there were 271 concussion reported by players in that season. This is the most ever reported in a single season. This proves they are a still a huge issue that needs to be addressed by the NFL. Over the past few decades there has been an increase in player suicide. A lot of scientists believe these suicides are due to a form of a degenerative brain disorder called CTE which is believe to be in some concussion victims. There is not a ton of research on CTE and specifically how it affects athletes so the NFL needs to up its protocol on this issue. A stakeholder not engaged in this topic is the Veterans Association. Concussions in the NFL is an issue that needs to be resolved, if the NFL acts more swiftly on it other organizations could get involved including the Veterans Association. If the VA gets involved they could find research that could help veterans, so both of these organizations need to act now before more lives are lost to concussions. Concussions are a prevenient thing in the National Football League. I believe that the NFL is not doing enough to fight the issue of concussions in their league. The NFL needs to invest more time and money into this topic. If they do not, they risk more players getting injured which could turn younger players away from play which would hurt the future of the sport. Even today there are parents having their kids play sports so their kids have brain Lando 2 problems when they are older. There are certainly areas where the NFL can improve the safety of the sport. Also, if the NFL does more extensive research and finds little to no correlation between playing football and getting concussions/ having future brain problems. There is a lot at stake for the NFL and football right now. It is crunch time and the NFL needs to act now. With all this being said the non-engaged stakeholder, the Veterans Association could also do their part to help out on this issue. The non-engaged stakeholder on this issue is the Veterans Association. The mission statement is, fulfill President promise care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow, and his by serving and honoring the men and women who are Veterans. (About The veteran Association began in 1930 but you can trace roots of the united states helping veterans all the ways back to the Revolutionary war (History). The VA is here to support and help our soldiers when they come back from battle. With that being said, the VA has a lot of work to do with supporting our troops. In 2012, it was estimated that 22 Veterans kill themselves everyday due to PTSD (Kime). That is an outrageous number and it needs to be lowered significantly. It is equivalent to us fighting another was. In 2012, the United States lost 310 soldiers in Afghanistan (Soldiers). Some of these suicides may be due to CTE. This is where the VA and the NFL could find some common ground. Concussions and CTE only affect football players. They can affect anyone with repeat blows to the head or any sort of head trauma. This happens in combat thus veterans suffer from it. If the Veterans Association gets involved then research will move forward thus leading to more knowledge on this topic. If the VA gets involved and helps find out more about concussions and CTE then there could be a decrease in veteran suicides. And if there is any chance to lower the rate of suicides among veterans then it is the duty to invest their time Lando 3 and money into this issue. If they do not they are neglecting the people that put their lives on the line for us. To go along with this the NFL as a corporation has an obligation to provide its employees (the players) much safer playing conditions and to invest more time and money into this issue. Both of these organizations have benefits to act on this issue and they need to as soon as possible. For the safety of all the individuals involved with concussions or being affected by CTE it is time for these organizations to step up and act. talk solely on the VA since they are the non-engaged stakeholder in this circumstance. In 2014 the VA had an annual budget of $152 billion dollars with $66 billion dollars being discretionary spending meaning they get to choose what they spend it on. With that money the VA should do research on veterans who have had concussion symptoms. They should also use that money to look at the brains of soldiers that have killed themselves due to PTSD and see if they find signs of CTE. With these finding they could do further research and try and make veterans lives safer. They can team up with the NFL so the fund is bigger and they can do more research. But they need to act now or there will without a doubt be more veterans committing suicide. Concussions all over can be slowed down if these two organizations get more involved. The NFL and VA both have billion dollar budgets so they have enough money to do research and get the best doctors around to figure out more on this issue. If these two organizations get involved then there will be more unnecessary deaths due to suicide and murder suicides. The research on this topic can save lives so it is time for the National Football league and the Veterans Association to get involved. Lando 4 Work cited Mission, Vision, Core Values & Goals - About VA, 1 Jan. 2005, Accessed 3 May 2017. History - VA History - About VA, 1 Jan. 2005, Accessed 3 May 2017. Kime, Patricia. Military Times, www.militarytimes.com/story/veterans/2016/03/09/veterans-suicide-we-must-and-do-more-va- says/81535264/. Accessed 3 May 2017. Ossola, Alexandra. NFL game changer: Scientists finally tackling concussions head-  CNBC. CNBC, 03 Feb. 2017. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. http://www.cnbc.com/2017/02/03/nfl-game-changer-scientists-tackle-concussions-head- on.htm. killed in action in Afghanistan Statista, www.statista.com/statistics/262894/western-coalition-soldiers-killed-in-afghanistan/. Accessed 3 May 2017.