Comeskey 1 Matthew Comeskey Composition 2 Instructor: Sarah Basil 4/15/17 Uber or a Monopoly? Uber is an international application that can be used from a variety of smartphone applications. The impact of Ubers takeover is an issue that is starting to take a toll on thousands of Americans. Uber has overtaken the transportation industry, as their competition, Lyft, and taxi companies, have not adjusted their business platforms to be competitive in the transportation market. domination of the transportation industry is becoming strikingly close to a monopoly and must be exposed to further the sustainability of taxi cab companies and the thousands of taxi cab drivers working hard across the US. Therefore, asking for the help of the USF community to become better educated and to take the first stand in the fight against Uber. Recently, Uber has expanded even more in the market place with the recent addition of UberEats to their platform. The sheer efficiency of the application and cheap prices have taxi cab companies struggling to stay in business because they cannot beat Ubers prices. In fact, another reason that Uber is becoming much more successful than taxi companies is because the ability to create your own schedule and work whenever you please easily attract men and women towards becoming an Uber driver. Uber is not just an application that helps people get from one place to another but is even growing into the commercial goods market. Analyst Miguel Helft writes that economic aspects of ride-sharing service are assessed, along with the food delivery and long-haul trucking programs and potential disruption of urban Comeskey 2 (Helft 2016). While Uber is dominating essentially every aspect of the transportation industry, taxi cab companies are barely making ends meet due to the monopoly like power over the transportation industry. Within the Tampa area, Uber is now causing problems in the St. Pete area, a common location where many students live and commute to campus for their daily classes. Joe Henderson, analyzes the illegal situation that Uber has imposed on the St.Pete/Clearwater area how does this end for St. Pete? Not well, if the experience of the Public Transportation Commission in Tampa is any example. The PTC started by asking the new companies to play by the same rules as the taxi companies. That work. So, PTC police officers started issuing citations to Uber and Lyft drivers. That work, either. The next step was fining drivers. still driving. Now, the county has joined a lawsuit that asks a judge to shut down until they comply with regulations. Good luck with  (Henderson 2015). Essentially, the main get away from this quote is that Uber is getting away with these rules because of the sheer size and money that their organization withholds. The best way to slow Ubers roll within the USF community is to educate the public so that we can prevent Uber from completely taking over our community with their illegal actions. To engage the audience the most fitting way would be to show the exorbitant impact that taxi cab companies are encountering due to Ubers impacts. In the following quote, Brian Solomon is going to analyze the fall of what was once San largest taxi company largest taxi company, Yellow Cab Co-Op, said that it will file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in a December letter to shareholders obtained by the San Francisco Examiner. While regular taxi operations will continue, the company needs to restructure due to serious financial  caused by mounting debt and competition from ride-hailing (Solomon). These Comeskey 3 apps, predominantly Uber are the reason for the destruction of taxi cab companies. Uber has driven the price of ride fares so low that these taxi cab companies, even the giants, are failing and thousands of hard working Americans are losing their jobs. In large cities such as San Francisco or New Mexico, taxi cab companies are struggling everywhere New Mexico, cab companies say being treated unfairly and complain that while they must pay for licenses and adhere to state Public Regulation Commission rules, Uber and Lyft flout those (Nikolewski 2014). If taxi companies are being forced into unfair licenses within the west coast, across the US, and as well as here in Florida, how is Uber consistently getting around the red tape? This is an issue across the US and is now becoming a problem here, within the USF community. The biggest take away from the previous paragraph is the utter disregard throughout America. why I am going to give you the opportunity to make the first strides to begin boycotting Uber. Taxi Companies that were once the kings of the transportation industry are consistently being run into the ground due to Ubers supreme services. Hard working Americans are losing their jobs daily due to Uber. The biggest issue with this is that many of these hardworking Americans are immigrants that are new to the US. Write Michael Luo states that new study on the people who drive New York taxicabs paints a rare portrait of this harried work force and reveals that extraordinary numbers of the newest immigrants continue to flock to the (Luo 2004). Ubers domination of the industry is taking away opportunity for those that are new to America. How is someone with financial struggles supposed to afford a car to drive for Uber? simply not possible and therefore they are meant to work behind the wheel of taxi cab companies that push these men and women into working hard shifts just to make ends meet. Comeskey 4 The biggest takeaways should show the negative impact that Uber is imposing on thousands of Americans lives. This is becoming a problem as monopolies should be properly regulated within the American economic system. However, there is something that you can due to slow Ubers roll to help taxi cab companies and drivers everywhere. asking you to try and take a taxi cab at least once out of the three times you need a ride somewhere. Just that one ride could make a huge impact if everyone at the USF community were to implement this rule. There are ride sharing taxi apps in the local Tampa Bay area such as the EasyTaxi App or the app Cabplus Tampa. These applications are extremely like Uber in pricing as well as the technology interface. To further prove my point, I even compared the price of an Uber and the price of the CabPlus app to the local Publix and both rates were $9 and come change. Please, just try one of these applications out and you can play a large role into the boycotting of Ubers illegal practices in the Tampa Bay community. In summary, Uber is becoming a monopoly and running taxi cab companies out of business throughout the United States. The issue at hand is that many of these immigrant workers that are new to the country cannot afford a car to become and Uber driver. then forced to work for taxi companies which are then going out of business and leaving thousands of hard working immigrant workers without jobs. By just taking one taxi cab ride out of every three rides, you could be a part of the effort to save taxi cab companies and to save the hard-working immigrants jobs not only across the US, but more importantly, here within the USF community, in your own backyard. Comeskey 5 Works Cited HELFT, MIGUEL, et al. BOLD MOVE. (Cover  Forbes, vol. 198, no. 9, 30 Dec. 2016, pp. 58-74. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=tru e&db=buh&AN=120089637&site=eds-live. Staff, Joe Henderson Tribune. Uber Migraine Could Soon Be St.  TBO.com. N.p., 17 Feb. 2015. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Luo, Michael. Study of Taxi Drivers Finds More Immigrants at  The New York Times. The New York Times, 06 July 2004. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Nikolewski, Rob. The Uber Effect: Why Cab Companies Hate  Watchdog.org. N.p., 29 Sept. 2014. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Solomon, Brian. First Casualty? San Largest Taxi Company Filing For  Forbes.Com (2016): 30. Business Source Premier. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Uber.