1 THE OCEAN IS DYING The Ocean is Dying David Enix Composition 2 2 THE OCEAN IS DYING The Ocean is Dying If you care about the survival of the human race, you should care about our oceans. The ocean covers about 70 percent of the surface. Being the biggest road, it provides transport for companies all around the world. Some companies have taken the ocean for granted, with greedy overfishing and careless ocean dumping. If the exploitation of the ocean is not addressed, the fish population will eventually hit rock bottom. Worryingly, of fish stocks worldwide are currently overexploited; 52% are fully exploited; and 7% are (Sea Farms, 2015). Even with the Ocean Dumping Ban Act of 1988, our ocean still suffers greatly from pollution. Before this law was passed, millions of tons of waste were dumped into our ocean. Some organizations are trying to reverse this, with ongoing cleanup projects. Over a span of 25 years, 144,606,491 pounds of trash have been removed from beaches during the International Coastal Cleanup (Ocean Conservancy, 2017). Even with these successful projects, as everyday citizens we must get involved to counteract the damage done to our ocean by reducing our carbon footprint, volunteering our time/money, and making conscious choices about what we buy/eat. Overfishing is a huge problem that directly correlates to the downfall of many marine species. More than 1 billion people worldwide depend on fish as their primary source of protein (Sea Farms, 2015). With fish stocks being exploited every day, the collapse of the fish population is inevitable. Approximately 90% of fish stocks of large predatory fish are already gone (Sea Farms, 2015). The fish at the top of the food chain have been targeted for so long that there is an imbalance in our marine ecosystems. Even with these obvious signs of abuse, companies continue to hammer down on our fish population. Many animals like turtles, dolphins, sharks, and sea birds get caught on fishing lines or pulled up by nets and are tossed back into the sea, often dead or dying (One Green Planet, 2013). These non-targeted animals that up losing 3 THE OCEAN IS DYING their lives are called bycatch. With fishing nets catching much more than intended, this method of fishing is unsustainable and irresponsible. Separate from overfishing, the amount of garbage in our ocean is killing marine life. Currently there are 5.25 trillion pieces of plastic debris in the ocean, 269,000 tons of that floats on the surface while nearly four billion microfibers per square kilometer litter the deep sea (National Geographic, 2015). With each person disposing nearly 220 pounds per year, the garbage has nowhere to go. Most plastics are not reused, and instead end up in huge landfills or dumped into the ocean. Plastic does not rot, and can last up to 500 years (Plastic World, 2015). Nature cannot dispose of plastic, only able to break it down into microscopic parts. This makes the problem worse, these plastic particles can absorb industrial and agricultural toxins. Many marine animals can mistake these pieces for plankton, thus consuming them. Every year more than 100,000 marine animals end up experiencing a slow and painful death. They starve with a stomach full of plastic, or their intestines rupture (Plastic World, 2015). These same creatures, that consume micro-plastics and ingest harmful chemicals end up as seafood, ready to be eaten by us. In the making of plastic, hazardous chemicals are used to enhance elasticity and fire resistance. These same harmful chemicals that are in almost all plastic products can be released when exposed to heat, or simply over time. When ingested by humans, these chemicals can have severe health implications such as cancer, asthma, infertility, and developmental disorders (Plastic World, 2015). The plastic industry covers up any scandals in order to prevent the passing of stricter laws. With plastic factories being so protected, it is almost impossible to know which additives are in their products. According to the Ocean Recovery Alliance, 33 percent of plastics that is manufactured worldwide is used once then discarded. Additionally, 85 percent of the 4 THE OCEAN IS DYING plastic is not recycled (National Geographic, 2015). Some organizations are making strides to cleanse the ocean using strategically placed nets and cleanup boats. However, this process is slow and is a long term solution to a pressing problem. The ocean absorbs nearly one- third of all human caused carbon dioxide emissions. Due to this consumption, the ocean is now 30% more acidic than before the Industrial Revolution (Live Science, 2013). The rate of change in ocean pH, called ocean acidification, is killing our marine life. Without changes made to society, all marine species could eventually wipe out. The best things we can do as everyday citizens are to reduce our carbon footprint, volunteer our time/money, and make conscious decisions about what we buy/eat. There are many things you can do to reduce your carbon footprint. These include carpooling, using high- efficiency appliances, using reusable shopping bags, and much more. If everyone makes an effort to reduce their carbon footprint, ocean acidification would slow down significantly. Another thing we can do to save our ocean is to volunteer our time and/or donate to cleanup projects. Cleaning up our beaches takes manpower, the more involved individuals, the cleaner our beaches will become. The Blue Ocean Society, Greenpeace, ORCA, Oceana, and Ocean Conservancy are all organizations with their respective sites that you can visit to donate money to cleanup projects. A third action to take is to be conscious about what we buy/eat. Look at the packaging of your products and see if it can be recycled or reused. The less plastic you buy, the less plastic that ends up in our ocean. To be smart about what you eat, make sure to eat local sustainable seafood and avoid imported seafood. Many countries that have weak management laws such as China or Vietnam are huge contributors to overfishing. By decreasing the demand for imported seafood, you are saving the populations of popular fish such as tuna and salmon. 5 THE OCEAN IS DYING More than half a billion pounds of seafood is taken out of the ocean each day (Sea Food Watch, 2017). Additionally, over half the fish we eat comes from fish farms. These practices are unsustainable and dangerous, but there is hope, sustainable seafood. Eating sustainable seafood can make a big impact on fisheries around the world. In fact, sustainable seafood efforts have already started in the U.S. The Monterey Bay Aquarium Seafood Watch is a program that allows consumers to make smart choices about what they eat. They offer a free app that tells you what fish to buy, what fish to avoid, and where to get it. They have a dedicated team that evaluates fishing and farming practices around the world and analyses the environmental impacts. With this app, you can make informed decisions about what you buy, and contribute to the revival of our ocean. This program has already helped 21 species of West Coast ground-fish, or species caught by bottom trawl, get back on their feet after previously being on the avoid list. Be the change you want to see, download the app and eat sustainable seafood. The ocean is a massive producer of food for the human race, without it world hunger would skyrocket. Due to overfishing and pollution, our ocean and its ecosystems are slowly dying. If everyday citizens do not make an effort to save our ocean, corporate greed will ruin the earth we live in. The best actions to take are to reduce your carbon footprint, volunteer your time/money, and make conscious decisions about what you buy/eat. Download the app and starting eating sustainable seafood. Your daily decisions could change the world, literally. 6 THE OCEAN IS DYING References 10 Alarming Facts About Overfishing. (n.d.). Retrieved April 16, 2017, from http://www.onegreenplanet.org/animalsandnature/10-alarming-facts-about-overfishing About Ocean Conservancy. (n.d.). Retrieved April 16, 2017, from http://www.oceanconservancy.org/who-we-are/our- Huelsenbeck, M. (2013, July 16). Acid Test: Rising CO2 Levels Killing Ocean Life (Op-Ed). Retrieved April 16, 2017, from http://www.livescience.com/38219-oceans-acidifying- with-rising-co2.html Ocean Trash: 5.25 Trillion Pieces and Counting, but Big Questions Remain. (2017, April 14). Retrieved April 16, 2017, from http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2015/01/150109-oceans-plastic-sea-trash- science-marine-debris/ Seafarms Group OVERFISHING STATISTICS EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW. (n.d.). Retrieved April 16, 2017, from http://seafarms.com.au/overfishing-statistics-everyone- should-know 7 THE OCEAN IS DYING The Seafood Watch App. (n.d.). Retrieved April 28, 2017, from http://www.seafoodwatch.org/seafood-recommendations/our-app