Brown 1 Jonathan Brown ENC 1102 Kristen Gocinski 21 April 2017 A Call to Voice Police body cameras have arisen more and more ever since the multiple police shootings starting from Ferguson in 2014 where 17 year old Michael Brown was shot and killed by Police. From this, people have cried out for police accountability. A way of presenting this accountability was the introduction of police body cameras. These cameras record every day activities of police officers and allow people to view any incidents or calls that they respond to. It seems to be such a light in the dark yet, there is a snake in the grass for this proposal. Organizations, like ACLU, want this footage to be released to the general public to view at any given point or time (Police Body Mounted Cameras). This cannot be allowed though, organizations like EPIC strongly believe that this is a clear violation of the 4 th amendment since it would be releasing footage of homes and belongings for the general public to view (State Law Enforcement Body Cameras). This is an ongoing battle today that is coming closer and closer to doorsteps than they realize. People will start to voice their opinions on the upcoming bills on the police body camera as it continues to unfold but there is a company that has not taken a claim in this ongoing battle, someone who could greatly influence the outcome of this due to their high standing. The company Home Depot was started back in 1979 and strived on customer service and bringing the upmost respect for customers and the community (Built from Scratch). An influence from Home Depot, say any funds toward organizations like EPIC, Brown 2 could greatly help their cause and stating their views on the issue and getting involved to stop the release of the footage to the general public. From Home Depot taking a stand in this ongoing debate, they could greatly turn the tide of it and make their stores a more comfortable and better environment for customers, knowing they have their rights infringed upon, and not having any bad footage being released to the public will only help the company and benefit them. The Home Depot was started back in 1979 by Bernie Marcus and Arthur Bank with the idea and philosophy to provide a friendly and a once in the lifetime customer service experience (Built from Scratch). This was unheard of for a hardware store of the time, not only would they provide excellent customer service but also the best products for their professional needs in a warehouse setting. Since the only two stores that opened on that fateful day in 1979, they have grown into one of the top retail stores in the world with stores spanning through the US and Canada (Built from Scratch). Their core value has been customer service, this company truly cares about its customers and community, giving donations to veteran programs and even having its associates go out and volunteer to build homeless shelters and even houses for those in need (Built From Scratch). They have kept quiet about the issue on police body cameras, but from these values that run this company, it should be a spark, a call to arms almost. A call to voicing their opinion on the matter since they would have such a big influence on this debate. According to Indianapolis Business Journalist, Mike Hicks, must also permit them to speak out against laws they judge wrong, or support those they judge (Let Corporations Influence Laws). From a company like Home Depot speaking out about this issue, it would greatly influence the overall outcome. The call for police body cameras arose after the shooting and killing of Michael Brown and Eric Garner (Police Body Camera Footage). People finally had enough with feeling uneasy Brown 3 with police and that they trust them. They take any more corruption or negativity that the media loved to show them and feed off of it. People cried for something for Police officers to be accountable for any actions they have. From this the government came up with the idea of having Police body cameras mounted on their chest to record all interactions they have when they are responding to a call. The idea was influenced by the fact that all police cruisers have dash cameras to record when they are driving around on patrol (Police Body Camera Footage). Most people jumped on board with this, others for various reasons are completely against it. They believe it will be a breach of their fourth amendment, protection from unlawful search and seizure, and especially with the fact that anyone at any given point can access footage of them and their homes (State Law Enforcement Body Cameras). EPIC stands with those who feel this way but also with those who want the cameras, they feel that there should be policies in place that the footage only be shown when necessary to certain people not the general public which would be the best outcome for all parties in this debate (State Law Enforcement Body Cameras). Why this can affect Home Depot is something that people may be wondering. If something were to happen in a store to a customer from a bad associate, that could create a fearful or negative outlook on Home Depot, it would be a PR nightmare. This especially could be bad if it was recorded on a police body camera and was released to the general public, this would create a negative outlook on the company that would have people fearful of shopping. Yes one bad associate will happen once in a while but having the police footage of, for example, a shooting it could severely harm the company but worse affect anyone who loves the company negatively. This the only case with Home Depot, the same factor for every major store chains in America that gotten involved with this issue. No one should have to hide Brown 4 anything from the public but companies want the footage out for anyone to view to create a negative image. For example, the associate that wore a political hat during the 2016 elections created a negative experience for shoppers of the Home Depot and the company was quick to take actions to correct the situation so it happen again (Home Depot Calls Workers Hat). Home Depot is ready to take action to help their customers and its community it cherishes. The best way for Home Depot to take action in this debate to make sure police body camera footage released to the general public is to voice their opinion. Release advertisements, even messages on social media stating where they stand how they support the police body camera footage to not be released to the general public. They could even go the extra mile and donate funds to organizations like EPIC to help spread their ideas on policies and have it be passed. show they are willing to sacrifice something for the better good of the community that Home Depot vigorously fights for. From Home Depot showing that they are taking action and taking a stand it will rally people to also stand by them on the issue, and to vote on the bill when the time comes and the time is coming faster than anyone thinks. America was built on the principles of protecting rights and freedom. Allowing police body camera footage would violate these rights and beliefs to the fullest extent. Home Depot taking a stand will rally so many others to this cause to fight against the footage being released to all. With this call to a voice, police will be held more accountable for their actions while also protecting their rights and the rights of the people they protect. The time to act is now for this bill or action is coming sooner than many even know. According to Writer Brian Liebman, of the one hundred largest cities in America equipped at least some of their officers with body (The Watchmen Blinded). Police body cameras are already here, Brown 5 now is the time to have a call to a voice to take a stand and make sure that this footage is not released to the general public, and that others rights are not violated. Brown 6 Works Cited Police Body-Mounted Cameras: With Right Policies in Place, a Win For  American Civil Liberties Union. Accessed 21 Apr. 2017. <https://www.aclu.org/other/police-body- mounted-cameras-right-policies-place-win-all>. About  The Home Depot. Accessed 21 Apr. 2017. <https://corporate.homedepot.com/about>. Pagliarella, Chris. Police Body Camera Footage: A Question of Access. Yale Law & Policy Review. Accessed 4/21/2017. http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vi d=5&sid= 4d5e3955-cd49-4e2d-af85- 589598a59968%40sessionmgr104&hid=114 Liebman, Brian. The Watchmen Blinded: Does the North Carolina Public Record LawFrustrate The Purpose of Police Cameras?. Accessed 4/21/2017. http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=8bf0 5c5a-4fd1-43e1-9218-da2cf174f947%40sessionmgr103&vid=3&hid=120 Hicks, Mike. Let Corporations Influence Laws Governing Them. Indianapolis Business Journal. Accessed 4/21/2017. http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=1&si d=06e 839fe-2341-42f2-9942-97184fb92c75%40sessionmgr104&hid=114 Brown 7 Peterson, Hayley. Home Depot calls hat after furious Trump supporters  Business Insider. Business Insider, 19 May 2016. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. <http://www.businessinsider.com/home-depot-under-fire-for-workers-hat-2016- 5>.