Prophilien 1 Wodelin Prophilien Sarah Basil ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Tobacco Taxation Today, most American citizens should know that cigarettes and tobacco products have a negative impact on your health. The tobacco industry has been a problem for the U.S. government since their establishment. Their cigarette products especially are an issue, the Centers for Disease Control ran hundreds of anti-cigarette ads in the past decade, and were able to make the U.S. populations aware of the dangers of tobacco products. The ads have done their jobs, in which at least people have quit smoking entirely and at least 1.6 million people have attempted to quit (CDC). But, the behind the scene problem that is occurring is the U.S. government has established some outrageous taxes which vary from state to state, to make profit for the industry virtually unrealistic. Although, the tobacco industry deserves this punishment for their crimes against humanity, but the U.S. government should consider a compromise between the two and gradually increase the tobacco tax not drastically increasing like largest federal tobacco tax increase in history took effect on April 1, 2009. The 62-cent increase raises federal excise taxes on cigarettes to $1.01 per pack, up from 39 (CDC). We as a USF community individually cannot do anything to change this situation, but as a community we can work together to appoint political figures that may think about a compromise between the government and the industry. The tobacco industry truly deserves a bad reputation in which their products contain various chemicals that are dangerous for your health. The main reason the government is hiking Prophilien 2 the tobacco tax prices is because of basic economics in which the price of the good goes up and the demand for the good goes down. The basics is the government is trying to make people quit smoking by hitting them where it hurts which is their pockets. One recent example of this is raised their tobacco taxes from 87 cents to $2.87 per pack in this current year which is more than double the tax rate from the previous (Associated Press). This is one example of how the government is taking advantage of the industry, in which they dramatically increased the tax. The trend seems that the tax will continue to increase 1980 and 2015, voters approved nearly 70 percent of the 32 tobacco tax hikes that appeared on statewide ballots, according to Ballotpedia, a nonpartisan research group that has tracked But, last November California was the only state out of 4 that raised their tax rates against tobacco while the other states raise their taxes against the tobacco products, which shows the trend is breaking. Some politicians argue because of the highly addictive tobacco products the drastic increase would not stop people from buying the products. But, the government has been increasing the tax on tobacco through ought history. In 2009 the government increased the $1.01 cent per cigarette pack and amongst other tobacco products. (CDC). The bigger tobacco industries do not lose profit as much profit as the smaller companies do when the tax increases are bigger because the tax increases put the smaller companies out of business and their workers lose their jobs. The government tries constantly to dramatically increase the tobacco tax but they need to do it gradually, in which both sides can come to a compromise and benefit. The USF community should care about this topic because many different industries depend on the negative image of the tobacco industry. The tobacco industry has numerous workers estimated that million people worldwide work for the (I.L.O.) The government uses the money that they earn from taxing the industry to make help centers for quitting, If the Prophilien 3 goal of the government is to eventually eliminate the number of smokers in the country, and destroy tobacco products they need to find ways to replace the lost revenue and the jobs. The tobacco company is still exploiting loopholes in the newly established laws that were made to make them pay the higher tax rate. GAO estimated $2.6 billion to $3.7 billion in lost revenue from April 2009 to February 2014 as manufacturers exploited loopholes in the Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act which raised taxes for smoking-tobacco (Reuters). The USF community should care because of two reasons we are a public university and the government funds us, if the laws that the government are passing are making them lose potential money because the tobacco companies are finding loopholes, this means the amount of money the university will get for funding will decrease. Second, we should care about this issue because this may cause a decrease in jobs that we as the future of the labor force may affect, if people stop using tobacco products drastically. What can we do as a USF community to deal with this issue? Previously mentioned in the introduction paragraph. We as individuals truly cannot do anything besides educating our peers and family members that cigarettes are bad for your health, while educating them that the government does not need to drastically increase the tax on the industry. Some of our politicians truly feel that the government is bullying the small percentage of the population that smoke cigarettes. November, voters in North Dakota, Missouri and Colorado defeated measures that would have increased taxes by 23 cents to $1.76 on a pack of (Pew Trust). This showed that the dramatically increasing taxes can be stopped, if we worked together with the community and educate them that some tax increases are not always good. Another way we as USF community can work together to help conquer the drastic increases is to appoint people in office that knows the meaning of a compromise, our representatives are the ones that vote for or against the tax Prophilien 4 increases. So we need to vote in a representative that shows he understand the opinions in office. One idea of a compromise was proposed in is that they compromised by raising their taxes up to 31 cents but not the 84 cents because they felt that they will lose their revenue to states with a lower tobacco tax (Schaefer). This compromise is exactly what we need our representative to do by gradually increasing the taxes but not dramatically increasing it. To conclude, the government and the tobacco industry does not have a great relationship in which only one or the other ever benefits from a deal. The Tobacco industry like previously mention should get taxed because of their many injustices against our peers and loved health. But, the government as the authority should not be able to dramatically increase the tax on the sale of their products like they have previously done. Which some may say is leeching. We as USF community can get involved in this issue in two different ways. First as individuals we can educate our peers and loved ones about the dangers of tobacco products while explaining the underlying tax issues. While we can get involved together by electing political officials like those in Mississippi that understands the meanings of a compromise. Prophilien 5 Work Cited CDC  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 28 Feb. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. ILO: Up in Smoke: What Future for Tobacco  DCOMM. N.p., 18 Sept. 2003. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 McGinnis, Annika. Tobacco tax law cost U.S. billions in revenue:  Reuters. Thomson Reuters, 29 July 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. MICHELS, HOLLY K. Even with tobacco tax killed, direct care workers might get a  Helena Independent Record. N.p., 13 Apr. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Povich, Elaine S. Tobacco Company Cash Crushes Tax  The Pew Charitable Trusts. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Press, The Associated. California tobacco tax more than  Ventura County Star. N.p., 01 Apr. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Schaefer, Ward. Senate Passes Lower Cigarette Tax  Senate Passes Lower Cigarette Tax Increase Jackson Free Press Jackson, MS. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.