Korosec 1 Ross Korosec ENC 1102 Hannah Lay 4/16/17 Paying College Athletes time to take a stand! College student athletes are being exploited day in day out and what are you doing about it? Yes you, the one paying to watch it happen. The fans. All the merchandise you give your money away to support your favorite school so you can support the favorite sport, where does it go? Well it go to the kids that make up the team. In fact, if they see any of the revenue that essentially is generated by themselves it is considered a violation of the NCAA and they will be doomed to expulsion of their sports. The Harvard Law Review Committee stated College athletes who receive compensation beyond tuition and room and board for their participation in a sport lose college eligibility in that sport, addition, an athlete loses eligibility in a sport if he submits his name for inclusion in that professional league draft or if he consults an (Harvard Law 1). The fans that pay to see the games must take a stand for their beloved players. The kids that are putting smiles on the fans face deserve to be compensated for their wok and I think that it is eminent to happen with the help of the group that funds the whole ordeal. You the fans can affect what happens to Student Athletes, So start petition and protest. The reason College athletes are not able to get paid is an outdated. As NCAA states, it is to keep an amateurism status. But why is the question that keeps arising when this topic is Korosec 2 brought up. It kind of seems as though not as applicable in day in age. in a major intercollegiate athletic program, particularly a National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I national championship, can translate into millions of dollars and immense pride for the players, coaches, alumni, fans, and (Weston 1) With so much revenue being generated it is hard to fathom why NCAA is holding out on giving the bread earners what they deserve, Compensation, commercialized intercollegiate athletics has attracted considerable attention in recent years. Popularity of this uniquely American activity, measured by attendance, television ratings, or team revenues, has never been higher. At the same time, however, several high-profile scandals exposing unseemly behavior on the part of players, coaches, and even respected higher education institutions-as well as questions about the distribution of the enormous revenues pouring into university athletic departments-have marred the image of these college football and basketball (Sanderson 1) After reviewing this information, we can start to put together that NCAA is going off outdated philosophies. The NCAA Should start to put a wage on top of a scholarship for each sport. A solution to the outdated NCAA Amateurism would be to start out by paying College Athletes a minimum wage that would compensate them for their doings. Having some intuition, myself, College athletes practice 6 days a week. This is more than a huge portion of jobs. Although it says that athletes can only practice 6 days a week the 7 th day will include work. Which in the College athlete department is essentially mandatory? These kids are trying to get better to play to the best of their ability. Another reason to why they should be paid. Kids are destroying their bodies in the prosperity of winning. The people who receive all the money are not the ones putting their bodies through an emotional rollercoaster. Depending on the sport there Korosec 3 should be a set wage to compensate for all the work that a college student is put through. NCAA says that a college athletes should not be treated differently than a normal student. This theory just does not make sense. Not only does a college athlete have the work load of a normal stressed out a student but he takes on a work load of practicing six to seven days a week of four or more hours. It hinders the ability of a student to make sufficient grades. There are physically not enough hours in the day. National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) is a private, voluntary, unincorporated association comprised of 1,017 members, including colleges, universities, athletic conferences, and educational associations. 1 According to the Constitution, the primary purposes of the organization are to promote intercollegiate athletics in the United States, to maintain intercollegiate athletics as an integral part of the educational program and the athlete as an integral part of the student (Harvard Law). Actions that should be taken to change the rules that apply to current College Athletes can start with a variety of ways to start a protest. The First of many ways Fans can act is to stop buying gear from schools. Universities make a fortune off apparel and merchandise for their school. If You, the Fans decided to take that away from them to send a message to the NCAA, it would help out the cause immensely. Another way to support the cause is to stop watching the televised games or going to games in general. Through this action, Colleges will have to rethink important to them in the long run of things. Lastly a very important component of taking action is starting a petition. This will justify the actions of not buying tickets to games, buying apparel or gear from that school, or watching the games on your television. Even going through the stands of a game and explaining to other fans what type of treatment student athletes get as Korosec 4 well as getting them to sign a petition could help. If you get them to start asking for signatures for a petition the process will be expedited. In conclusion, as to why the Fans of College sports should Urge the NCAA to provide wages to Student athletes. Student athletes have a work load of a full-time job or even more. This does not even include the time spent in class, Studying, etc. Students at Universities are said to be stressed out over just school. Can you imagine taking on a full-time job without any pay on top of that? It is unrealistic to say that student athletes do not deserve a wage of some sort. Harvard Law has said multiple times that the only reason NCAA is able to uphold the ability to withhold Wages is because of small technicalities that have been said to be Numerous times throughout the article that they put out. Each time they have been taken to court Judges have been starting to lean towards the compensation of student athletes in order to expedite the vanishing of exploitation of student athletes. According to Harvard Law These judges are starting to say that a voluntary Program such as the NCAA have as much say as they have had in the past. Judicial services have said not judicial job to tell Ammeters if they can be paid or time to start making petitions to get Athletes paid. Getting Universities to have their student athletes go on strike until they are paid for their doings. Fans it is vital that you make this voice be heard. As much as boycotting watching college sports until they are paid could spark the attention of universities to start heading in the right direction. They would lose millions if the fans do their part. A voice is all that needs to be heard. Harvard Law believes that the Era off amateurism has seen its glory days. Korosec 5 Works Cited Sherman Act Invalidation of the Ncaa Amateurism  Harvard Law Review, vol. 105, 01 Apr.1992,p.1299.EBSCOhost Weston, Maureen A. NCAA Sanctions: Assigning Blame Where It  Part of the Symposium: The NCAA at 100 Boston College Law Review, vol. 52, no. 2, Mar. 2011, pp.551583.EBSCOhost, Sanderson, Allen R. and John J. Siegfried. The Case for Paying College  Journal of EconomicPerspectives,vol.29,no.1,Winter2015,pp.115138.EBSCOhost,doi:10.1257/jep.29.1.115 .