Landvogt 1 Lauren Landvogt Adam Carter ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Prisons or Humble Abodes When asked to describe zoos, Dr. John Lily describes zoos as, of confinement providing free food and medical care are called On a sunny Saturday the best extravaganza for a family outing may seem like a visit to your local zoo, which a long journey for most. There are an abundance of menageries across the United States. According to National Geographic, in the United States, there are approximately 2,400 with licenses to hold creatures in captivity and only 212 of the exhibitors are members of the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (Critics Question Commitment to Conservation). This organization holds zoos to high standards to the care, science, and conservation of the animals who inhabit the facilities. However, only 212 out of a whopping 2,400 are committed to these standards. important as a nation to stop and reflect on how the other 2,188 establishments are treating their animals. These establishments are detrimental to the quality of life for those animals that call the zoo In order to combat the absence of commitment to the care, science, and conservation of animals, in the 2,188 establishments, it is crucial that we boycott these menageries that do not abide by the standards to protest their existence around the nation to force them to cease operations. If zoos followed the high standards set by the AZA, zoos would be an exceptional place to help conserve biodiversity. However, because they do not abide by the standards, most zoos hinder conservation efforts rather than promote them. A particular hindrance that animals develop while held in captivity is commonly referred to as by animal rights Landvogt 2 activists. Zoochocsis is a term used to refer to the numerous psychological problems associated with animals kept in prolonged captivity (Zoos). This phenomenon is shown through symptoms of: pacing, circling, bar-biting, neck twisting, head-bobbing, weaving and swaying, rocking, overgrooming, self-mutilation, vomiting, regurgitating, coprophilla, and caprophagia (Zoochosis). Coprophillia and caprophagia is when an animal plays with or throws their feces around their enclosure. These symptoms of zoochocis are often illustrated by primates. Zoochosis is caused by factors such as: small enclosures, inadequate climate, inadequate diet, loneliness, exposure to loud sounds, artificial lighting, and unrecognizable odors. Several studies have been conducted to support the existence of this phenomenon. One of the most common forms of zoochosis seen in big cats and bears is pacing (Zoochosis). In a study that analyzed the pacing of polar bears in captivity it was concluded that pacing is measurably different than non- repetitive movement and may reflect a state of distress and it may indicate animals are disengaged with the environments they are forced to live in (Cless et al. 83). This pacing behavior is considered abnormal and would not be found in animals that reside in their natural environment. Many animals live in enclosures that are surrounded by cement walls and metal bars. Zoo enclosures may resemble natural habitats, but are not nearly as liberating as the wild. Animals, like people, are sociable creatures. When forced into small enclosures with limited space and limited interaction with other animals of their species, their life span is shortened due to the experienced stress and conservation efforts are ultimately destroyed. These zoos that do not implement the standards are not an appropriate conservation method. According to Captive Protection Society, conservation efforts need to take place in the wild and concentrate on preserving their habitats rather than trying to remodel habitats with cages and cement walls (Zoos). The existence of zoos that ignore the standards promotes vastly Landvogt 3 assorted ranges of negative psychological effects on the wildlife in captivity, and should therefore be considered harmful over helpful to conservation efforts. Not only do the existence of zoos that do not follow standards set by the AZA have adverse effects on the animals that live there, but they also have adverse effects on the people in the community. The existence of these non-abiding zoos is detrimental to the minds of the community. According to CAPS, zoos that do not follow the standards teach people that we can manipulate animals and use them for our own purposes such as education and curiosity (Zoos). An incident at the Copenhagen Zoo illustrates this statement. Marius was a 2-year-old giraffe residing in an exhibit at the Copenhagen Zoo (Parker 43). Scientists involved with Denmark zoo decided to euthanize the young giraffe. The method the zookeepers used to euthanize Marius consisted of feeding him rye bread, which favor, and then proceeding to shoot Marius in the brain with a bolt gun (Parker 43). The zookeepers euthanized Marius in order to avoid inbreeding within the giraffe exhibit. Many protesters had set up petitions, although none were able to save the young life. People in the community expressed disgust and a lack of support regarding this decision. After killing the healthy, young giraffe, the zoo set up a public examination of the dissection. Children and families were able to observe the dissection to learn about the anatomy of the creature. They were exposed to the head of Marius that had a prominent wound in his head, showing the execution method The remains of Marius were then fed to the carnivores, such as the lions, who also resided in the Copenhagen Zoo (Parker 45). This animal was inhumanely killed because of the mistake of breeders from the zoo and was then exploited to bring in traffic and profit to the zoo. The article describes the purpose of the death as was for local consumption, for local (Parker 47). Using the lives of animals for our own benefits is not ethical. Humans do not have the right to dictate the life and Landvogt 4 the death of creatures, and should most definitely not be teaching this assumption to our own species. Teaching people of all ages that we control animals and their living conditions is the incorrect way in facilitating excitement and education about the environment and the creatures that inhabit it. By recognizing that zoos do not uphold the high standards implemented by the AZA such as those that affect the care, conservation, and science of wildlife, it is evident that something must be done. As citizens of the United States we must boycott the existence of nonaccredited AZA zoo establishments around the nation. By boycotting zoos that do not uphold these standards, we will take away their sources of income and reason for existence. By eliminating the traffic zoos experience, it will put them out of business and strip them of their titles as places for entertainment and education. By taking this step, both the animals and people will benefit. Zoo animals are put through a tremendous amount of stress and are forced to endure unfit living conditions because of the existence of zoos and lack of support of the standards. Overall, zoos do are more harmful than they are beneficial to society as a whole. It is crucial to the well-being of both people and animals that establishments that are classified as cease to exist and that other conservation methods are employed. Landvogt 5 Works Cited Cless, Isabelle T., et al. Defining Pacing Quantitatively: A Comparison of Gait Characteristics between Pacing and Non-Repetitive Locomotion in Zoo-Housed Polar  Applied Animal Behaviour Science, vol. 169, 01 Aug. 2015, pp. 78-85. Laura Fravel. Critics Question Commitment to  National Geographic. National Geographic Society, 13 Nov. 2003. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Parker, Ian. The  New Yorker, vol. 92, no. 45, 16 Jan. 2017, pp. 42-53. Zoos  Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.