Reem Al balushia Composition II John Williams April 15, 2017 Animal Testing Animal testing is one of the big issues that animals face. It affects the animals in many ways. It causes diseases, injuries and death for animals. In addition, using animal products like using the fur of some kinds of animals causes animals endangered which affects the natural chain. We as a human have a responsibility to save the animals because they are part of the environment. Also, animals have the right to be safe in their environment. There are many organizations that give the animals special attention and they fight the companies that use animal testing. Some examples of these organizations are Humane Society of the United States and people for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). These organizations support the animals in many ways. They collect donations to support the animals and they offer shelters for animals. In addition, they call people to stop using animal tested products. We do not need organizations to support the animals; each one of us can take action and start to help animals. Every one of us should have a responsibility to keep animals safe and stop the things that harm the One of these ways is to stop animal testing by boycott the animal tested products, stop using animals fur in fashion and support the organizations that seek to help animals, then we can keep animals safe in their environment. According to Cosmetics Animal tests for cosmetics include skin and eye irritation tests where chemicals are rubbed onto the shaved skin or dripped into the eyes of rabbits; repeated oral force-feeding studies lasting weeks or months to look for signs of general illness or specific health This quote shows some of the things that animals face in the chemical laps. It causes many diseases and injuries in their eyes and skin because of the chemical products that been tested on them. In many cases this kind of tests cause death for animals. According to that test on list includes companies that make cosmetics, personal-care products, household-cleaning products, and other common household Companies on this list should be supported for their commitment to manufacturing products without harming any animals. Companies that on this list should be boycotted until they implement a policy that prohibits animal (np). This shows that possible to test the products by using alternatives of animal testing. So if each one of us stops buying the animal tested products, companies that test on animals will try to use the alternatives because no one will get their products. According to Society of the United they mentioned that to address the inhumane treatment of animals, the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) has developed into the largest privately funded animal protection (Davis and Jennifer, 2015, p4). This organization is supporting animals in many ways. They offer shelter, collect donations, offers information about animals and show how people can contribute. In addition PETA is another example of the organizations that support animals From Congo gorillas to humpback whales off the coast of Gabon, all life is worth conserving to the Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS). The group, founded in 1895, works to protect wildlife and lands throughout the world and to instill in humans a concern about Company Profiles, 3). This organization makes sure to offer good shelters for animals and they keep them safe in their environment. So people who wants to contribute with helping animals they can make a donation to this organizations or visit their web sites to read and know more about animals and who to help them. In addition, these organizations show which companies are testing their products on animals, so it helps people to stop buying their products. On the other hand, some animals will see animal testing as something important to safe the consumers provide a balanced perspective and add to this discourse it is important to review the current paradigms, explore pros and cons of alternatives, and provide a vision for the future. The fundamental goal of toxicity testing is to ensure safety in Burkhardt, Kadambi, 441) this shows that companies that test their products on animals see that as something necessary to safe human life. Every one should have enough education about the alternatives to avoid and damage to animals. According to to animal the authors mentioned that experimentation has long been a controversial issue with impassioned arguments on both sides of the debate. Increasingly it has become more expedient and feasible to develop new methods that avoid the use of and Harrison, 2006, p123). This article is showing that animal testing is not the only way that companies can use to test their products and make sure safe for consuming, but there are many other ways that helps in testing the products and by following these alternatives we can safe both humans and animals. In conclusion, animal testing is one of the serious issues that animals face. It causes hurt and death to many kinds of animals. The chemicals that used in lapse cause many diseases and injuries for animals. People should have the responsibility to keep animals safe in their environment and this could happen in many ways. Some people have the power to offer a direct help for animals because they know too much about animals and the others who do not have any idea about how to help animals; they can support the organizations that support animals either by donating or adopting animals. In addition, they can visit the websites for these organizations and get some information about animals and how to help them. One of the most important ways to help animals, is to stop buying the products tested on animals and that way they can stop the companies to test on animals. Some people will not agree with that because they see that animal testing is necessary to test the products safety before sale it to people. We can educate these people by explaining to them the alternatives of animal testing that can help in saving both humans and animals. Work cited 1. About cosmetic Animal Testing, Humane Society international, m 2. Companies that test on animals, beauty without bunnies program, http://www.mediapeta.com/peta/PDF/companiesdonttest.pdf 3. Davis and Jennifer, Humane society of the United State. Organization, January 2015, p4. 4. Hester and Harrison, Alternative to animal testing. Electronic resource, 2006, p123. 5. Company Profiles, WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY, 2016,p3. 6. Mangipudy, Raja, Burkhardt, John ,Kadambi, Vivek J., Use of animals for toxicology testing is necessary to ensure patient safety in pharmaceutical development. Regulatory Toxicology & Pharmacology: RTP, November 2014, p93-441.