Al Hadhrami 1 Al Mundhar Al Hadhrami John Williams ENC 1102 13 April 2017 Videogames and Violence How many hours do an average gamer spends playing videogames daily? Videogame addiction can be describe as the excessive or compulsive use of computer games or the video games, that will interfere with a day to day life. The current gaming consoles are unlike the past where they had been developed extensively and examined by professionals so that the games have a positive impact in society. Since adults today have played Pong or Donkey Kong as children, video games have made considerable progress. On the other hand, harsh videogames can cause teenagers to act violently when their parent are not taking full control of what games their kids are playing. Almost all scholarly articles that researched videogames show how videogames can be developed and manipulated in a way that can cause a positive impact on society. However, in the end, the last question is not how videogames can be beneficial, but rather how to be able to control it in order to avoid any certain negativity on society. Gamers do not realize the negative effects videogames have on them physically, mentally, and even socially. Effects arise to gamers such as increased aggressive behavior, social isolation, as well as poor academic performance. We cannot deny that videogames are taking a big time on both teenager and adult lives even though it may cause violence in society if it was not controlled properly. However, society can be influenced positively towards a brighter future with the right guide from parents, media, and advertising. Al Hadhrami 2 One of the very first negative effects that videogames have on an individual is increased aggressive behavior. The American Psychological Association stated in a report research demonstrates a consistent relation between violent video game use and increases in aggressive behaviour, aggressive cognitions and aggressive affect, and decreases in behaviour, empathy and sensitivity to  Teenagers who tend to play games that involve shooting are likely to develop aggressive thoughts and actions as well. Typically after playing a game of violence, the teenager would then want to go outside in the real world and mimic the same actions seen on the game. As a result, they can then be addicted to violence and that is the biggest threat to society. Experts have also done studies that conclude that the influence of games such as Grand Theft Auto and Call of Duty results in criminal acts. Not only is increase aggressive behavior a negative aspect of playing videogames but social isolation is a big factor as well. A study that has been aimed to investigate and compare social skills of gamers concluded that the to computer games may affect the quality and quantity of social higher the addiction to computer games, the less the social A gamer does not realize the amount of time he or she spends daily in front of a screen, which can isolate them from the outside world. Teenagers who tend to play more videogames are less likely going to participate in activities such as playing sports, reading, writing, and much more. In addition, they also tend to not have a social life where they engage in conversations and be apart of any events. Suffering relationships with friends and families results from this isolation due to the fact that they are spending more time playing than they do with their loved ones. Al Hadhrami 3 Lastly, the third negative effect that videogames have on an individual is poor academic performance. When children play too much videogames, their performance in school can be significantly affected as well. Their time spent playing will exhaust them not only physically but mentally as well. An experimental study conducted by Robert Weis and Brittany Cerankosky concluded that Not only did the kids who received game systems spend less time doing homework, they also performed worse on standardized tests of reading and writing four later. Moreover, their teachers were more likely to report academic Spending too much time on a game will result in the child having trouble sleeping, which affects his or her attention span in class. As a consequence, he or she will not pay attention in class causing lower test scores than other classmates who do not spend much time playing videogames. The students will also tend to skip homework and assignments to play his or her favorite game, that can then end them having poor grades and failure. In order to fix this threat in society, there should be a major shift in a life. There are many solutions to avoid all the negative effects that videogames have on gamers. One of the first methods is to have a time restriction when playing the game, where players would end up having a certain amount of time used to play. Another way is to engage in outdoor activities at least once a week with family or friends. This way they can build relationships and not end up in isolation. Moreover, another thing that can be done is to avoid situations where there is a need of spending a whole day in front of the television or computer. Participating in events or activities such as school clubs or community groups would also be a great idea for gamers to help them stay away from playing too much. Al Hadhrami 4 Lastly, with the right guide from parents, media, and advertising, society can be influenced positively towards a brighter future. As a conclusion, Videogames can have both positives and negatives effects on life. As a result, parents, media and advertising should take a big role in how to make an impressive action that helps people especially teenagers to prevent the consequences and make it a learning tool in the future. Al Hadhrami 5 Work Association, American Psychological. Keep up with American Psychological Linekdin. American Psychological Association, n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. < https://www.linkedin.com/company/american-psychological-association> Granic, Isabela, and Adam Lobel. Playing Video  The Benefits of Playing Video Games (2006): n. pag. American Psychological Association. Jan. 2014. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Robert Weis. Does playing video games make players more violent?. London: Palgrave Macillian, Uk . 2016. Internet resource