1 Lyan almasoud Pr. John Williams Composition1102 April 27, 2017 The Modern Animal Testing Animal testing has had existed and practiced a long time ago and became one of the necessity things of life. Animal experimenting have engaged in cure, vaccinations and medicine to promote health wise lives. Animal testing have been following the Animal Welfare Act (AWA) law back in 1966. By meaning the animals that are being tested on are protected by the (AWA) obligations. According to environmental defense fund 95% of animals are not protected by the AWA excluding mice, birds and cold blooded animals. However, in scientist defense that because animals and humans are so biologically similar, they are susceptible to many of the same conditions and illnesses, including heart disease, cancer, and diabetes. Also, The California Biomedical Research Association states that nearly every medical breakthrough in the last 100 years has resulted directly from research using animals. However, over the scientists and the FDA have been blinded of the fact that animal testing is essential that they overlooked that animals have rights and it became cruel over the years. The modern animal testing organization is to update the (AWA) and the FDA of some new obligations explained on the website that needs to be followed to make it humane and acceptable for anti- animal testing by collecting data on the percentage of thoughts and comments. Animal testing be eliminated because there is no alternative efficient way than 2 animal testing. Science and medicine is yet to be discovered thoroughly. The future is full of unpredictability and unknown diseases that might effect humans race. Using mice who are 98% genetically similar to humans can benefit generations of humans while they can live only two to three years (Dvorsky 1). Conversely, the media have showed footage of unpleasant ways of performance on animal testing. Thus, the idea of the modern animal testing is to collect data of the people who voted their thoughts and commented on the three namely, replace, reduce and refine of animal testing adjustments. Replacing the use of animals with alternative techniques. According to Rogers, vitro (in glass) testing, such as studying cell cultures in a petri dish, can produce more relevant results than animal testing because human cells can be Also, avoiding the use of animals that protected by the AWA and avoiding the certain animals the are considered illegal no matter how much their DNA matches with Moreover, alternative techniques are now cheaper than animal testing according to Humane Society International test costs $32,000, while the in vitro alternative costs Therefore, there are a lot of alternative ways that animals need contribute in every experiment which are cheaper and merciful on the animals. Another additional idea on the modern animal testing rules is, reducing the number of animal usage. Meaning to limit the number of animals that are experienced on. According to The Hastings Center, 26 million animals have been experienced on at fiscal year 2010. Therefore, this strategy will make scientist experience on animals when completely worth experienced on to not exceed the allowed number of laboratory animals. And instead of just doing random testing, they can make multiple research to reassure that the experiment will succeed and as a result animal will suffer less. 3 Refining the way, the experiment is being performed on is additional major idea. According to (AWA), requires house improvement procedures like enclosure size, temperature, access to clean food and water, and others. Also, require more painkillers and sleeping pills and numbing needles and medicines that can cure them if damage occurred. These are required by the (AWA) for selected animals leaving other animals suffer and abused. The goal of the organization is minimizing their pain for all animals that are being tested. Lastly, stricter inspection on every experiment procedure. According to Americans for Medical Progress, all proposals to use animals for research mush by approved by Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). If there were stricter and random checkups scientist will follow the law and provide as much as pain killers for the animal and by humane with them. Nevertheless, animal testing has helped animals as well. according to California Biomedical Research Association, if vaccines were not tested on animals, millions of animals would have died from rabies, distemper, feline leukemia, infectious hepatitis virus, tetanus, anthrax, and canine parvo virus. Also, if animals were left alone in peace, they have been cured from cancer, diabetes and heart diseases. Animal testing have cured and improved tons of animals owing to animal testing. In conclusion, animal testing has shown a major impact on both humans and animals and its promoted in the future to proceed by many scientist, however, anti-animal testing have argued and fought for their suffrage and demanding to stop. Because there is no assured way better than animal testing yet, animal testing will continue and should be promoted and developed even f or animals. Animals should be treated skillfully and with strict rules and laws. Therefore, in order to make animal testing anti-cruel and human people voices should be heard in the modern animal 4 testing organization to encourage and sponsor the latest ideas and comments for the sake of laboratory animals that are waiting for some mercy. 5 Work Cited: Americans for Medical Progress, Animal Research FAQs: The Top 10  amprogress.org (accessed Oct. 15, 2013). California Biomedical Research Association, CBRA Fact Sheet: Why Are Animals Necessary in Biomedical  ca-biomed.org (accessed Oct. 15, 2013). George Dvorsky, Do These Startling Longevity Studies Mean Your Lifespan Could  io9.com, Apr. 30, 2013. Humane Society International, Costs of Animal and Non-Animal  hsi.org (accessed Oct. 15, 2013). Kara Rogers, Scientific Alternatives to Animal Testing: A Progress  britannica.com, Sep. 17, 2007. The Hastings Center, Fact Sheet: Animals Used in Research in the  animalresearch.thehastingscenter.org (accessed Oct. 15, 2013).