Pemberton 1 Daniel Pemberton Professor Sarah Basil ENC1102.106S17 30 April 2017 The Climate Change Consensus and its Opponents There is a consensus in the scientific community that climate change not only exists and is directly related to human activity, but that it is also a pressing issue that requires immediate attention. Strange weather patterns, powerful storms, warming climate and melting snow caps are among the more visible signs that this consensus has validation. Over 90% of scientists agree on this topic (Cook). Despite the mounting evidence however, organizations and think-tanks exist that attempt to decry this consensus, claiming that recorded data and studies do not accurately reflect the magnitude of climate change. These organizations often have a strong sway in government and policy making, and if left unchecked, can cause state representatives to vote and support deregulation policy. When the term or is used, it is referring specifically to the effect that greenhouse gases have on the environment. In his book about the basics of climate change, Joseph Romm, physicist and climate expert, explains that the most harmful of these greenhouse gases is CO2, or carbon dioxide. This gas traps reradiated heat from the sun in the atmosphere and causes it to warm the planet (Romm 1). In a lot of ways, this system of heating has worked perfectly throughout human history, as it would be too cold to live on earth if heat constantly escaped. However, the amount of heating that the planet undergoes has changed drastically in the last two hundred years (Romm 2). Pemberton 2 During the 19 th century, Europe and the United States entered what is now known as the industrial revolution; immense advances in technology allowed these titans of the world to produce faster, more efficiently and with less physical labor (Klassen). Factories and steam ships were invented and utilized to create and distribute goods, more expeditiously than had ever been done before. This gave rise to the beginning of commerce and trade as we see it today, manufacturing and sale in a scale the likes of which make the industrial revolution seem conservative. With the population of the world several times the amount that it was back in the 1800s, it is expected that demand would increase alongside it, and with it, production. Scientists have calculated that the CO2 levels in the atmosphere during the dawn of the industrial era two hundred years ago were about 280 parts per million. Today, scientists record 400 parts per million of CO2, showing a 143% increase of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. This is directly responsible for the heating up of the planet, which is now warmer than it was in 1900; of the warming happened from 1970 (Romm 2). Decade by decade, the record for warmest year on the earth has been topped; 1998 was succeeded by 2005, which was topped by 2010, which has already been replaced with 2014 (Romm 3). To combat this dilemma of rising temperatures, the United Nations created a body specifically to deal with climate change, known as the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel On Climate Change, or IPCC. In 2007, this group of the top scientists and climate researchers released an assessment on the state of the climate, concluding that global warming unequivocal, as is now evident from observations of increases in global average air and ocean temperatures, widespread melting of snow and ice, and rising global average sea The one hundred and ninety-three countries who are members of the UN read and agreed with the Pemberton 3 scientific consensus (Romm 2). This signified a new period of regulations and commitments to ensure that the earth that we all shared was to be protected; each one of us played a part. However, despite growing trends of solidarity, some still differed. In the first decade of the 21 st century, amidst all the talk of reversing climate change and organizations and groups and think-tanks existed (and still do) that refuted the claims of the many consensuses. They were proponents of the belief that either the entire idea of climate change was a hoax, or that while the records and data were true, they did not dictate any threat to human ability to live and thrive on this planet. A lot of these organizations believed that not only was there a false narrative by the majority of the scientific community, but that their message and support was detrimental to financial growth. This idea stems from the fact that many supporters of climate change believe that deregulation of certain industries is the best way to decrease CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions. If companies are given a cap on how much greenhouses gases they can emit, production will invariably decrease, resulting in less profit. The believe that one of the more notable groups amongst these opponents of global warming is known as The Heartland Institute. The Economist once described the Heartland Institute as most prominent think-tank promoting skepticism about man-made climate when referring to the allegations that the Institute had attempted to give anti-climate change teaching materials to primary schools in 2012 For years now, this Illinois based conservative organization has proudly attempted to dismantle the pervasive idea that climate change is as bad as so many scientists say it is, criticizing endeavors of companies to be climate friendly and advocating for deregulation. The Institute describes itself as a being comprised of advisors, 33 senior Pemberton 4 fellows, and 250 elected signifying the influence that organizations such as this can have on legislation concerning climate change in the United States of America (Teddy). The movement away from protecting the environment has already begun, unfortunately. On February 17 th 2017, Scott Pruitt, former attorney general of Oklahoma, was confirmed as chief of the EPA, the Environmental Protection Agency of the United States. The irony of this appointment was that Pruitt was a longtime adversary of the agency, constantly criticizing their efforts to regulate pollution and in some instances even suing the agency (Dennis). Pruitt, who has a relationship with fossil fuel companies, has made his agenda clear; strong deregulation by the EPA (Greenwood). This all falls in line with the ideology of the conservative think-tanks, climate change deniers, and politicians who believe that stringent laws only slow down progress. It is incredibly easy to feel that the situation right now is helpless, as a ban on hunting lead bullets is repealed and a new bill is signed to start drilling for oil in the Arctic, but every American citizen has a very effective and latent power (Cama): the ability to mobilize and vote. A poll done in 2016 revealed that over 90 million eligible voters did not participate in the presidential election (Levine). Those numbers shrink even more when it comes to lesser known election days when state representatives are voted in, the men and women who are directly responsible to attend to their constituents needs. This lack of awareness means that too often, there are people in power who do not hear the concerns of the people who they are meant to serve. This issue can be resolved. Environmental protection policy can continue to exist if the people let their voice be heard. Easily accessible apps such as let their users know the names of government officials, and means and methods of contacting them. It allows people to know who their representative is, and what that person will vote on. Too often, the things that Pemberton 5 people are actually concerned about are not on the forefront of minds. Let us stop climate change from being one of those things. (1260 words) Pemberton 6 Works Cited Cama, Timothy. Interior secretary repeals ban on lead  TheHill. N.p., 02 Mar. 2017. Dennis, Brady. Scott Pruitt, longtime adversary of EPA, confirmed to lead the  The Washington Post. WP Company, 17 Feb. 2017. Web. Greenwood, Max. EPA chief calls for rollback of regulations at  The Hill. N.p., 25 Feb. 2017. Web. Klassen, Jeff. Industrial  Research Starters: Sociology (Online Edition), 2015. Levine, Daniel S. Over 90 Million Eligible Voters Vote in the 2016 Presidential  Heavy.com. N.p., 10 Jan. 2017. Orr, Isaac. Fall for Foray into Renewable Energy; a  News - Fall for Foray into Renewable Energy; a Gimmick Heartland Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. Romm, Joseph. Climate Change : What Everyone Needs to Oxford : Oxford University Press, 2015., 2015. What Everyone Needs To Know. Teddy, K About  About Us Heartland Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. Toxic  The Economist. The Economist Newspaper, 26 May 2012. Web.