Hudson !1 Andrew Hudson Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.910 21 April 2017 Reasoning For Gay Marriage To Be Accepted Everywhere Unique. This is all being gay is, is being unique. Unique is a quality that one possesses. Uniqueness is not an act or a statement, it is a simple state of being. Thankfully the United States, as well as other countries by its government, fully grants freedom of speech rights to all their citizens, or do they? In recent times, the LGBTQ community has run through the mouths of American political leaders and social activists more often than not. From being unfavored in American culture for so long until the turn of the millennium, to progress to legalization of gay marriage in 2015 under Barack administration, back to being unfavored and having plans to be reversed under current Trump administration; LGBTQ has run its course. It is sad to admit that some places in the world have no gay rights or where being gay is not even something that seems to exist. Russia, where posters of president Putin represented as a gay clown are criminalized, is a dangerous place to be openly gay in society. The issue of gay rights has come to such great lengths in the world and all the people of LGBTQ try to do is share their harmless love with each other and in no way creating a harmful image. Foreign countries, Russia, need to be more open and democratic with their citizens and take a stand with the minds and lives of their peoples so that they can lively freely and happily. Gay rights are basic human rights. It is that simple. Being openly gay in society is challenging enough. What one gay person goes through to come out and be who they truly are Hudson !2 takes lots of patience and acceptance. Judgements and assumptions are made about gay people all the time from people with various views on the subject. The LGBTQ community is composed of people with various sexual orientations that value all walks of life and try to expand with an internal support system for people alike. LGBTQ do no harm to others, they are just another set of citizens with similar intentions to educate and stand for their rights just like any community would. People that are LGBT are everywhere in the world, wether foreign countries or societies want to admit it or not, they are a part of the world and have every right to individual thought. Though in scattered parts of the world it is hard to be accepted or to accept ones self when stigmas are present; this is demonstrated through a passage in Carole Jurkiewicz article State of She mentions: common practice of black Southern gay men [is adopt a ask, tell approach to their sexuality. These men are characterized as having effeminate mannerisms and same-sex partners, while frequently being married to women and fathers of children, a circumstance of which the community is fully aware but which is not publicly acknowledged. (Jurkiewicz 156) This sort of circumstance is popular for people who often feel ashamed or ridiculed to be LGBT, and not just particularly in the southern U.S., but especially in different parts of the world. The fear of coming out in society is that communities and governments will take extremist actions, like arrests or public humiliation, toward people of LGBTQ. The fear, hiding, and masking of identity needs to be stopped. Citizens of all countries should live openly and comfortably, not being forced to choose who to love in their home lands. Russia is considered to be socially conservative. In cases of homophobia and same-sex marriage, the Russian Federation has been in favor of laws that discriminate against homosexuals Hudson !3 even thought they violate their international obligations to support freedom of speech and human rights. The majority of Russian society is against homosexuality and say that it should not be accepted. Russian citizens have gotten used to the ideology that gay rights are not humane rights because the Russian government has been shutting them down for so long. Under the Russian Constitution, marriage can only be declared between a man and a woman. In many civil court cases, same-sex marriage is denied. Patriarch Kirill, leader of the Russian Orthodox Church, primary religion, in an article for the New York Times called same-sex marriage very dangerous sign of the (Herszenhorn). Because Russia claims that they live in a civil society, they try to hide or reject any form of untraditional values, especially among younger populations. The idea of sheltering the Russian youth from gay rights is described in a journal article by Eric Engle Rights in Russia? Ban on Gay Pride Parades and the General Principle of Proportionality in International on how Russia recently approved a gay propaganda law that prohibits public view of gay culture. In article, he says laws have been adjudicated and found constitutional, as reasonable restrictions on fundamental rights necessary to secure state interests in protecting the family and ensuring (Engle) meaning that Russia pulls the curtain down in front of any gay act, including but not limited to gay pride parades, adoption of children to same-sex couples, or public display of affection. Out in society, shaming, assaulting, and arrests frequently occur to those that display homosexuality. Russia tries to maintain a historic, traditional value that is becoming obsolete in international society where many people are learning that they have the human right to think, act, and love freely. For too long, Russia has acted unfairly to its people, controlling how society is run and governing a strict regime where freedom of speech rights are limited. Because gay rights are Hudson !4 nonexistent in Russia, it takes a different kind of leadership for them to be incorporated into the land. Democracy, coming into cities in small increments, can play a strong role introducing homosexuality to the nation. Once it is normalized in certain areas, eventually the whole country can adjust. The idea of gay-marriage growing on a culture comes from a book by Johnathan Rauch titled Gay Marriage: Why it is Good for Gays, Good for Straights, and Good for America. Rauch mentions that marriage will work best when people accept and understand it, whereas a sudden national enactment might spark a culture (Rauch 6). Culturally the nation would grow from having a documented number of different sexualities. Increasing the diversity of a people is part of what helps the people be happier, its government become more and appeal to the rest of the world. Russia is a semi-presidential system where its president rules closely with his cabinet. Through introducing more democratic rules, Russia broadens its rights to live in a system where they do not feel commanded by the government to think or live a certain way. Getting used to democracy and free thinking will take time for people who are mainly against homosexuality and are used to a commanding and controlling government, but once gay marriage becomes legal people will eventually realize that their town or government is allowing them more freedom of though while still entitling everyone to their own opinion; the beauty that is democracy. Incorporating democracy in a land is supported in R. Claire book Gay Marriage and Democracy: Equality for All. Snyder says: the liberal democratic state may not legitimately impose any particular moral or religious doctrine on its citizens, but instead must leave individuals free to pursue their own vision of the good life by maintaining legal equality and protecting Hudson !5 rights and liberties, including freedom of conscience, the right to privacy, and the right to marry. (Snyder 9) By doing so, Russia can say that their land is a place where more walks of life and ideas are welcomed. Now more than ever is the time for Russia to start posing democratic views, introducing gay rights into their society and stand with those in the LGBT community. In a world growing with the times, more people are learning that their lives matter just as much as anyone gay, straight, black, white, from near or afar, each person born world-wide is granted the rights to think freely as an individual and live their life how they please. The way for Russia to introduce gay rights is to introduce democracy, a system that has been missing in Russia for a long time that many of its citizens would more than likely appreciate. In a democratic government, the leaders work with the people, and what the majority of people want, the people get. Although, this would probably be a daunting step, as citizens must unite to create a better living environment for themselves, and show that Russia can be a freer world with the power of the people, it would take much time for democracy to fall into place. The second thing that Russia should do to support gay rights is protect the citizens that are want to be openly gay in their communities. Local authorities should not tolerate violence, discrimination, or any hate crimes toward their citizens like they do now. Gay rights are civil rights that each country must grant to its people, an argument that is highlighted in Edwin book The Diplomatic Protection of Citizens Abroad or The Law of International Claims, when saying term [civil has been interpreted as meaning private rights or those sanctioned by private law, regulating the legal relations between individual and individual, as distinguished from public rights or those governed by (Borchard 70). For Russia to be a safe and appealing place to Hudson !6 live for its citizens and for those aboard, as well as grow economically and socially, they should emphasize the critical role civil rights play in a country and should have public acts of hatred made against the law. When Russia cracks down on their security of citizens, especially in major cities where higher populations of LGBT people live, acts of hate crime will no longer be tolerated and all citizens will have to keep their hated to themselves and live harmoniously. Also, Russia should take further action in populated cities to establish safe spots and host pride parades. Safe spots are people-run businesses and somewhat sanctuaries of sorts where all people are welcomed and accepted. All hatred and discrimination is left at the door and provides LGBT members to act freely without feeling ridiculed. Pride parades are celebrations of LGBT peoples where the community comes together and enjoys a parade dedicated to gay rights that are supported by local organizations. With these two additions throughout communities, Russian citizens will grow to accept the idea of gay rights. Eventually, with enough of all of these added components, Russia as a country can learn to accept gay marriage into their constitution, a step for them to stand with LGBT. In order for the hiding mass of LGBT, these are the steps that Russia needs to accomplish. Gay rights are civil rights and civil rights are human rights. Because everyone living on earth is human, everyone is granted civil rights, while also granted gay rights if applied. LGBTQ is a compassionate community of individuals that have been pushing for their rights to be legalized and widely accepted. Russia, where rights are chosen and selectively granted, is a country that could learn something from the LGBTQ community. to be engaged with gay rights and expand their democracy can help the country grow socially, economically, and help them be an ally to the rest of the free world. Russia must take a stand with LGBTQ in Hudson !7 their communities, cities, and government to prepare its citizens for changes in society, civil rights, and overall uniqueness and diversity as a people. Hudson !8 Works Cited Jurkiewicz, Carole. State of Journal of Health and Human Services Administration. Vol 37 Issue 2 (Fall 2014): 152-170. http://search.proquest.com/openview/ 0654415496d13dfd798f60a558fd341c/1?pq-origsite=gscholar&cbl=27394. Accessed 2 May 2017. Herszenhorn, David M. in Russia Find No haven, Despite Support From the New York Times. 2017 The New York Times Company. 11 August, 2013. support-from-the-west.html?pagewanted=all. Accessed 17 April 2017. Engle, Eric. Rights in Russia? Ban on Gay Pride Parades and the Genereal Principle of Proportionality in International CIEE. 6/2 Journal of Eurasian Law 22 (2013). Rauch, Jonathan. Gay Marriage: Why It Is Good for Gays. Good for Straights, and Good for America. Macmillan 2013. p. 9. books.google.com/book? +russia&ots=uLRx20DaX8&sig=i8T5wWWKYYKcB9bTzFgfDxahu48#v=onepage&q&f=true Synder, Claire R. Gay Marriage and Democracy: Equality for All. Roman & 2006. p. 9. books.google.com/books? +russia&ots=uLRx20DaX8&sig=i8T5wWWKYYKcB9bTzFgfDxahu48#v=onepage&q&f=false Borchard, Edwin. The Diplomatic Protection of Citizens Abroad, Or, The Law of International Claims. Banks Law Publishing Companay, 1915. p. 70. books.google.com/books?