Rashida Dacas Dacas 1 Professor Sabah Uddin 3/07/17 ENC 1101 Conversations Over Time Race in the American justice system something that is new to the modern world. Talks on how race deals within justice system has surfaced multiple times from countless of scholars throughout the existence of America. Scholars have made a clear firm stance that race is something that does effect the justice in modern times and dating back for centuries. These scholars may have different supporting information for their arguments but the all argument seems to remain the same. Due to an on going of racial issues throughout the history of African Americans scholars continue to push forward the thought that racism still seems to be very prevalent in the united states justice system. Despite the different methodology towards the authors findings they have all seemed to come to the same conclusion. Alexander, Michelle. jim crow: mass incarceration in the age of Place of publication not identified: New Press, 2010. Print. According to this author the incarceration of african americans is used as a control aspect for renaming jim crow laws as the criminal justice system. The author believes that the justice system uses the war on drugs in order to to target a large cultural group in America. The authors research on the 4th amendment find it to be the culprit for the high incarceration rates of african american males. The author concludes that racism is very much still primitive . Alexanders method for research is quite different from the rest of the authors listed. This author used law to Dacas 2 support her arguments whereas the other authors used more of a pathos approach with interviews and current events. Taylor, Keeanga-Yamahtta. #BlackLivesMatter to Black Chicago, IL: Haymarket , 2016. Print. Even though resulting in the same conclusion that race plays a very strong role in the justice system. As described by Taylor black lives matter shows the study of how police interact with the black community. The author point out these mass protest have not stopped the racism in the system but it simply has awaken a new generation of activist. Not only black incarceration but mass unemployment plays a role in the struggle. new push for black liberation. Taylor Yamahtta seems to find hope in the future agreeing with Michelle Alexander that race plays a role in the criminal system and why african american males are incarcerated at higher rates than other races. the day to day struggles in which many people are engaged today must be connected to a much larger vision of what a different world could look (216) Its truly evident that author knows not much change has occurred but she sees room for it. Case, O. F. The Relationship of Race and Criminal Behavior: Challenging Cultural Explanations for a Structural  Critical Sociology 34.2 (2008): 213-38. Web. The author studies ohio prisoners to conclude and state that behavior behind the races is the cause of race being so strongly prevalent in society. In contrast to how the other authors found their findings this author believes solely on the behavior patterns. Most of the other Dacas 3 authors place the blame only on the cultures outside of the black community but this author believes that the behavioral patterns of how some portrays themselves also plays a factor. attitudes towards blacks (and other racial minorities) may lead to a self- fulfilling prophecy of greater arrests in the black community and stronger laws to prosecute (222). The author also touches that races pass judgement leading them into situations where they blacks are at the fore hand of race and the complications with the how the justice system deals with such. Brooms, D. R., and A. R. Perry. Its Simply Because Black : Black Mens Experiences and Responses to the Killing of Black  The Journal of Studies 24.2 (2016): 166-84. Web. This study takes a more personal route compared to the other sources with a basis of law and current events to support their arguments. This source is an interview of 25 black males that have obtained a college degree or is seeking one. These educated males personally support the rest of the arguments with how the victims perceptions of race, stereotyping and profiling. In attempting to explain the killings of Black men in the past 5 years, Jeff, a 21-year-old college student, explained, Simply because all Black men. nothing else, no other reason why I can see why any of them were killed. Folks, I mean folks can say what they want. The difference between those cases and if you or I Dacas 4 done something like this to a White male, it have taken long for the jury to make a decision; we been under the a fact, historic. (176) The suspects behind the interview all felt that their skin was a setback for them. They all felt targeted by the community and the criminal system. Because of their skin color they felt like walking targets. Even though authors stated how this gender and race feels the authors behind this ciation supported the theory with a personal encounters. Even though the opinion of scholars changed drastically over the years the events that constantly seem to occur that allow their opinions to continue on a steadily pace. Dacas 5 Work cited page Alexander, Michelle. jim crow: mass incarceration in the age of Place of publication not identified: New Press, 2010. Print. Taylor, Keeanga-Yamahtta. #BlackLivesMatter to Black Chicago, IL: Haymarket , 2016. 216. Print. Case, O. F. The Relationship of Race and Criminal Behavior: Challenging Cultural Explanations for a Structural  Critical Sociology 34.2 (2008): 213-38. 222. Web. Brooms, D. R., and A. R. Perry. Its Simply Because Black : Black Mens Experiences and Responses to the Killing of Black  The Journal of Studies 24.2 (2016): 166-84. 176 .Web.