Rosenlund 1 Troy Rosenlund Ms. Cat Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 4/12/17 Joining the Conversation I really feel like my question has been sufficiently answered yet. Everything that I have seemed to have found only gives us a little bit of information about what the brain does when we listen to music. The difference in this essay now is that I can use two additional sources that have to be peer reviewed, which allows me to find more answers through different avenues. I will be searching to find out what goes on in our brain when we hear music, as well as acknowledge any argument that may contradict my findings. I believe that when we listen to music, our brain becomes a lot more active, because the music stimulates different parts of our brain. This in turn can allow us to be either more productive, more distracted, and possibly both. When we start listening to music, it activates the pleasure receptors in our mind. The amygdala then releases dopamine in response to the music, which makes us feel good. Once the dopamine has been released, it gets processed by the mesolimbic system, which is involved in arousal, pleasure, and the movement of neurotransmitters. This chemical release is what causes us to get the chills when we hear a really satisfying piece of music. However, listening to music can sometimes be distracting. Music that we know and like is more distracting than something unfamiliar to us because we get too involved in the music and forget about the task that working on. Despite this, it was concluded that listening to music before we complete the task can help us complete it better. According to WebMD, listening to music while doing something Rosenlund 2 can impair our memory, as well as our ability to focus on the task at hand. Because of power to make us feel good, this is also what gives it the power to distract us. If not careful, some of us could end up having a dance party in our dorm while supposed to be studying for finals. Vuoskoski states that our current mood can determine the type of music that we listen to in that time. This is a claim that I agree with completely. When feeling sad or angry or nostalgic I listen to songs that evoke those feelings more, allowing me to satisfy my thirst for those emotions. There are also certain songs that I have a very strong memory linked to, so that whenever I hear the song, my thoughts go to that memory instantly, as soon as I hear the song start. The research that was done by Etzel and his team support this. They were successfully able to evoke happy, sad, and scared feelings from their participants, just by choosing 4 songs that elicited each emotion. An evaluative judgement is a judgement that our mind makes without us even realizing done it. This serves as a way to keep us from wasting time on a song we might not like. This can however backfire, as there is the chance that we might actually like the song that we just skipped. I can relate with the evaluative judgement that Estok talked about. After having read this article, I catch myself making these judgements when I listen to new music. Sometimes I choose to ignore the feeling and keep listening to the song to give it more of a chance, and other times I give into it and skip the song so I waste the time. However, I disagree that music preferences stay stable throughout life. When I was younger, I listened to an entirely different genre of music than I do now. I started listening to Christian music growing up, and that has developed into Metal and Rock, suggesting music preferences always stay stable. Rosenlund 3 One of the things that I think was effective during each study despite being a little bit underrated, was the researchers asking the participants what they felt. It allowed them to try and put words to the emotions they were feeling. This also gave the researchers the ability to check and see how effective their tests were as far as the readings went. In spite of the effectiveness of asking the participants their emotions, I think that a bit of circular reasoning. The researchers are using the emotions to validate the test results, and using the test results to validate the emotions. So, this sort of leads us in some circles as far as our understanding of the results go. However, the results still ended up being accurate so it worked itself out in the end. The tests that the researchers used to determine their results, are called EEG scan. An EEG is an electroencephalogram that measures brain wave activity to check if there are any electrical problems in the brain. This same type of test can be used to check the brain activity when being stimulated. An EEG scan is how the researchers were able to see what kind of activity was going on in the brains when they were listening to music. This allowed them to solidify the emotions that the participants were expressing. What was most helpful to find an answer to my question was having the availability to look at other sources, not just peer reviewed. I think part of the problem I was having before was because the field I was searching in was already so narrow in information period, adding the stipulation that they needed to be peer reviewed just made the game that much more difficult. Once I was allowed to use sources that peer reviewed, it enabled me to find more information because the sources have to be scrutinized for a year and a half or so before they were accepted. Articles, passages, and websites were just more plentiful when people just wrote about the subject by taking from studies. Rosenlund 4 When I could use sources that peer reviewed, it allowed me to finally find the answer to my original question, which is what chemical is released when we listen to music? Tom Barnes answered this with his article in 2015 when he stated that dopamine is the chemical that is released that makes us feel good. An issue I had with the peer reviewed sources, they were much more in depth in their studies than I needed, so I kept getting a lot of text with little information. In the end, it seems that a lot of circular reasoning. Music choice can induce specific emotions, just like how our emotions can dictate music choice. Rosenlund 5 Works Cited: Barnes, Tom. What Happens Inside Your Brain When You Listen to Music, in 3 Mind- Blowing Mic, Mic Network Inc., 26 Oct. 2015, mic.com/articles/119856/this-is- what-happens-inside-your-brain-when-you-hear-a-song#.lQGOulYad. Accessed 4 Apr. 2017. Hendrick, Bill. to Music While Working Hurts WebMD, WebMD, 28 July 2010, www.webmd.com/brain/news/20100729/listening-to-music-while-working- hurts-performance. Accessed 4 Apr. 2017. Estok, Eva, et al. love Rock genre preference modulates brain responses to Biological Psychology, vol. 92, no. 2, 28 Nov. 2012, pp. doi:10.1016/jbiopsycho.2012.11.005. Daly, Ian, et al. emotions can be predicted from a combination of brain activity and acoustic Brain and Cognition, vol. 101, Dec. 2015, pp. doi: 10.1016/j.bandc.2015.08.003. Vuoskoski, Jonna K., and Tuomas Eerola. role of mood and personality in the perception of emotions represented by Cortex, vol. 47, no. 9, Oct. 2011, pp. doi: 10.1016/j.cortex.2011.04.011. Etzel, Joset A., et al. and respiratory responses during musical mood International Journal of Psychophysiology, vol. 61, no. 1, July 2006, pp. 69., doi: 10.1016/j.ijpsycho.2005.10.025.