Moderation of Compassion for Sciene In any industry involved in research, it is of the upmost importance to avoid bias. Bias is a flaw in collected data caused by a subjective influence believed to have led to unreliable measurements or observations. Faulty data could lead to a number of issues, such as unreliable knowledge of the result of the research or endangerment of those in the study. Due to the fact that therapeutic companies use people in their research, they need to be especially cognizant of avoiding bias in all their studies. A part of this involves a proper client and researcher relationship, neither showing favoritism nor distaste for any of the clients involved in the study. Finding the appropriate amount of emotion or compassion involved in any form of research is a difficult task. Rather than avoiding extremes there should be more guidelines as to how interaction can be at its best possible condition, while remaining unbiased using some third party advisory or procedure. In the extreme situations there will either be a complete apathetic lack of emotion or the risk of becoming too involved or caring with a patient/client. Being too apathetic towards a patient/client does more than cause a loss of profit. It is widely believed that bedside manner is important to the treatment of any person, no matter their condition. If those being cared for or studied feel disconnected from the situation it is entirely possible for them to exhibit negatively associated habits or conditions that are truly unrelated to the study. This is one way to create faulty data, while the other is almost entirely opposite. If a researcher or caretaker were to become too involved this could risk bias and the safety of a client/patient in any numerous amount of ways. The researcher could observe positive conditions where there are none, or possibly even worse negative conditions that cause them to become overly concerned and make rash decisions to risk the safety of those being studied in an attempt to them. Researchers might also falsify data and lie about observations made if they believe it would work towards their benefit or possibly others. This could cause serious complications with any study being done, especially therapeutic drugs that are in testing trials or gene therapies under research. This is where moderation becomes extremely important. There is a stakeholder in this field known as the Genetic Literacy Project that uses the phrase in their mission statement, science form (Genetic Literacy Project Team). This phrase implicates apathy and disregard of necessary emotion or compassion needed in science. Such as the emotions that are derived from inspiration and lead to the motivations of progress in science. Another stakeholder known as Sangamo Therapeutics has a much more moderate mission statement that exemplifies the proper approach, stating Guided by (Sangamo Therapeutics Inc.) This is more than just a tactic of advertising to those more social and emotional minded clients. This is a demonstration of the care they plan on using and the level of service and communication they plan on promoting. To show further care to any potential clients the company has an informational page about their clinical trials, and when this is first seen the statement, THE SAFETY AND EFFICACY OF OUR shines through boldly (Sangamo Therapeutics Inc.). To give a quick example of the kind of work done by therapeutics companies, there was a study done on changing a certain type of cell for the purpose of treating HIV patients (Wang, 2016). They put safety before efficacy to show client relationships are important, while also emphasizing the importance of efficacy to show that the researchers set out to accomplish their tasks. Reaching the customers is a skill that any form of business finds vital, and when the health and well-being of people becomes involved, connection becomes even more vital to the skill set of practitioners, doctors, and researchers. Other therapeutic companies also take patient care very seriously. Most should as their task is to help those believed to not be receiving the necessary care for their conditions and find innovative ways to treat those in dire situations. One such company known as uniQure states in their values, passionate about the (uniQure) This value is also an example of moderation, as it states rather than a term such as or This draws a line to give care to a patient without becoming to directly involved, yet promotes the required interaction for the well-being of the patient. The company InVivo is dedicated to patients with spinal cord injuries and their mission is the life of SCI (InVivo Therapeutics). They explicitly state how they the which creates the necessary pretense of connection with distance. Most companies should use guideline values such as these to ensure proper patient care is given, and moderation is used in all situations. To take an account from a different side of this situation is important. Not only are clients/patients concerned about their care, but so are those giving the care. One health professional anonymously discusses how there are more complex aspects of care, simple steps could be taken to make patients more comfortable (Anonymous, 2012). They bring up a study done by the University of Kansas how sitting down to talk to patients eases their minds a bit more than when care givers are standing. This is the perfect example of a procedure that could be used to better the moderation of interactions with clients/patients. This is a way of effectively making a connection without becoming overly entangled or seeming apathetic. Another party that should take a significant interest in this is any kind of organization or business looking to endorse therapeutic companies or private healthcare practices. This could include any kind of union or insurance company that networks with these other companies and organizations. It is important to keep customers and clients informed and aware of not only their situation, but whomever is available to assist or provide care for said situation. Keeping patients aware of the care they receive goes beyond honesty. It will help turn profit and further than that ensures a happy client to make the situation, relationship, and care better. These third party organizations should get involved and educated in patient care and the companies involved with the different situations their clients are in. This includes therapeutic companies that give care to those in need of specialized treatments such as gene therapy. Staying updated with current scientific processes and development is vital to these organizations future and those of their clients. Moderation is known as an important virtue for any person to learn. For those involved in this field of genetics, health becomes a vital aspect of moderation. The well-being of a client holds the most precedence and a need for information on those best suited for the care of others becomes necessary. That is why those who endorse care takers and researchers should take care to inform those they are endorsing the organizations to, should inform possible clients/patients of the conditions they should expect. Researchers should be evaluated and procedures in place to avoid bias; such as double blind studies that make it near impossible to falsify information, or third party doctors to be used as insurance that proper care is given and second opinions are heard. Works Cited Genetic Literacy Project Team. Not Genetic Literacy Project, Genetic Literacy Project, www.geneticliteracyproject.org/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. InVivo Therapeutics. InVivo Therapeutics, InVivo Therapeutics, www.invivotherapeutics.com/about-invivo/about-us/. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. Sangamo Therapuetics Inc. Trials :: Sangamo Therapeutics, Inc. Sangamo Therapeutics, Inc., Sangamo, www.sangamo.com/clinical-trials. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. UniQure. Mission - About - Corporate Mission - About - uniQure, UniQure, www.uniqure.com/about/corporate-mission.php. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. Wang, Jianbin, and Michael C. Holmes. hematopoietic stem cells toward a functional cure of human immunodeficiency virus Cytotherapy, vol. 18, no. 11, Nov. 2016, pp. USF, doi:10.1016/j.jcyt.2016.07.007. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Anonymous. Simplicity of A discussion on the importance of compassion in providing patient care Supplemental Health Care, Supplemental Health Care, 21 Mar. 2012, www.supplementalhealthcare.com/page/simplicity-of-compassion. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017.