Austin 1 James-Lee H. Austin Bob Botkin ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The Profit of Non-Profits Throughout the country there are 5,564 registered hospitals, and out of those 2,919 are community non-profit hospitals (aha.org). In an ideal world, this would mean that 50% of the nation would have access to hospitals that are founded on one ideal, a single principle- saving lives. These hospitals work with rigor to provide for people who need care, covering any and all inconveniences for the sake of health. Yet, our world is not ideal. Not everyone has access to hospitals and care. Not everyone can afford the treatments they need. Because of this, many hospitals are bound to the ambitions of making money. They operate for profit, and not people. So how can this change? Quite simply the answer comes from educating the public, who fund non-profits. When enough people are given the knowledge to make a change, and enough people care, there will be a change in the way those people act and the movement can start towards more non-profit hospitals. One of the first things that needs to happen before the movement towards saving others that can not necessarily afford it is to educate the public. First of all, what are non-profit hospitals? Well, non-profit hospitals are usually based on a charitable purpose and is organized as a non-profit organization. According to Modern Healthcare, the average debt one person has is about $5,178 and there are about 42.9 million Americans have these debts, and some have even more debt than that because of some terrible accident (modernhealthcare.org). If there were more non-profit hospitals, then these debts may be minimalized and the public would have one less Austin 2 thing to worry about. A majority of non-profit hospitals, more than 70%, pay for those bills that the patient cannot pay for (3623, Li et. al). Some non-profit hospitals even pay for the whole bill, places like: Hospital, St. Hospital, and even local Tampa hospitals, like Kindred Hospital. All of these hospitals have one thing in common; quality of care. On all of these hospitals webpages, there is at least one phrase about having the quality care that patients need (stjude.org). When a hospital chooses to cover a patients bill because that hospital has empathy for the patient, that is when a hospital is doing their job. If more hospitals try perform this task, then hospitals will be making a leap towards being a non-profit hospital. Another reason non- profit hospitals care so much is because they do research to save lives all over the world. For example, without St. Hospitals, the cancer survival rate might still be at 20%, rather than 80% (stjudes.org). On the other hand, some of the most profited hospitals in the nation are non- profit hospitals. According to Forbes, the highest profiting hospital had a profit of $302.4 million (Lee). The good thing about this is that the money does not go to the stockholders, but the money goes back to the patients. The hospitals put the money towards benefiting the patients and even opening more hospitals. Since non-profit hospitals are so helpful towards the community and the patients, that makes the non-profit hospitals one of the best options for choosing a hospital. There are many reason why non-profit hospitals are one of the top choices for hospitals. When someone is admitted into St. Hospital, the patients at no time have to pay for that month long stay, including surgery and the recovery time afterwards (stjudes.org). The non- profit hospital takes care of almost every financial charge. Other organizations, like Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children, help families that do not have the means to cover the whole bill (arnoldpalmerhospital.com). This shows that these hospitals care for the patients and not the money that they can acquire from the patients. When a hospital takes quality care of their Austin 3 patients, people start to notice and want to support an organization with the same cause as they might have. People like to follow a cause, just like the fight for cancer. Millions of people provide funds to St. yearly, and this money is used to give back to the community by finding cures. These funds helped raise the survival rate of cancer, provide families with hospital visits, and can one day provide for the same people who have helped with charitable contributions (stjudes.org). If somebody follows their cause and helps by providing donations to a lot of the non-profit organizations, they are in turn helping out themselves and many other patients around the country. The world needs something to stand for and that one thing can be non-profit hospitals. Non-profit hospitals are made for the community, by the community. Those non-profit hospitals need all the help they can get. The key to helping this cause is to involved with non-profit hospitals. Direct ways to help non-profit hospitals are simply to $19 a or the amount of donation that the organization calls for (stjudes.org). Giving donations is a quick and direct way to impact the organization, which is the best option if there is minimal time to perform a different task. But, if the ability to pay the donation is not available, there are many other ways to participate in the movement. One way is to bring awareness, which can be done through making flyers, word of mouth, or maybe setting up a table in front of the Marshall Student Center and just making the people aware of everything that the hospitals, or organizations, are good for. These have been proven successful many different times. Organizations have used ways like 5k runs and 10k runs, which is usually something like Relay for Life. All that is needed to participate in these runs are to talk to people and get sponsors to do the run. Even children can make a difference. There have been multiple cases where children host bake sales and things like lemonade stands because these are cheap and easy ways to raise money for the organization. Even if you are not a child, Austin 4 having a bake sale, or doing something of that sort will help out by providing funds for the hospital and bringing awareness towards the cause. If time and money are an issue, there is even something that is easier and takes little time to do that makes a big impact as well. That action is making a simple card for patients at the hospital, which is something a lot of students at the University of South Florida do for Hospital. This makes the stay in the hospital that much easier. It makes the entire day better and makes the patient feel like somebody else cares, other than the doctors and nurses that are treating them. Even if things like bake sales, or charity runs, cannot be done due to time issues, there is always something that can be done. When more people start to become more aware that non-profit hospitals are the heathier choice, the world of medical care will change. The only way to make this change is to educate the public on why non-profits have a good effect on society, engage the public with reasons they need to care, and help guide the people towards actions that will encourage the change that is needed. It is easy to be that change in the world, all that is needed is a passion and a drive to make that change. If there is ever a drive for a cause, it is encouraged to have that drive and passion for making the medical field a better place to go for services. All that is needed is for an action to be taken, so take that action. Austin 5 Works Cited: Arnold Palmer Hospital for  Arnoldpalmerhospital. Orlando health, 2017. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. <http://www.arnoldpalmerhospital.com/>. Fast Facts on US  American Hospital Association. Health Forum LLC, Jan. 2017. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. <http://www.aha.org/research/rc/stat-studies/fast-facts.shtml>. Finding cures. Saving  St. Jude Research Hospital. St. Jude research hospital, 2017. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. <https://www.stjude.org/>. Lee, Bruce Y. Very Profitable Nonprofit Hospitals...But Where Are The Profits  Forbes. Pharma & Healthcare, 8 May 2016. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. <https://www.forbes.com/sites/brucelee/2016/05/08/very-profitable-nonprofit-hospitals butwhere-are-the-profits-going/#78301bd36b22>. Li, Chunhui, and Chuanhua, Yu. Performance Evaluation of Public Non-Profit Hospitals Using a BP Artificial Neural Network: The Case of Hubei Province in  Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 10 (2013): 3619-633. ISSN 1660-4601. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <file:///Users/JamesLee/Downloads/ijerph-10-03619.pdf>. Press, Associated. 42.9 million Americans have unpaid medical  Modern Healthcare. Associated Press, 11 Dec. 2014. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. <http://www.modernhealthcare.com/article/20141211/NEWS/312119987>. Shriners  Shriners Hospital for Children. Shriners, 2016. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. <https://www.shrinershospitalsforchildren.org/>.