Alfalatah 1 Sarah Abdulkadir Alfalatah Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 4/28/2017 The Relationship Between Mental Illness and Criminal Behavior My research question through-out this semester was: how does being diagnosed with a mental disease affect an lifetime of committing crimes and being incarcerated because of their disease? The research done has varied, some people believe that anyone who maintains a mental disease has a very higher chance of committing crimes. On the other hand there was a lot of researchers who disagree and believe that being mentally ill does not necessarily imply criminal behavior. Many results from my research have shown that mental illness can slightly increase criminal behavior; however, it is not a main cause of criminality. Criminal behavior for the most does not result from one fact only, but is a combination of multiple risk factors that eventually lead to criminal behavior. Many people in this society suffer from a mental disorder and could be treated unjustly because of their disorder. People who suffer from drug addiction, family abuse, and alcoholism, could be treated unjustly as well. Criminal behavior is a very complex matter and there is no simple way to determine who will commit a crime. I believe that people who have a mental illness should not be judged and labeled because of an illness they ask for and want. A lot of people struggle to control their disease and try to seek help and support so they can get through their difficult times. Implying that people who are mentally ill will commit a crime is not fair and believing that will only increase their Alfalatah 2 thoughts to act and behave violently like criminals. Criminal behavior is not easy to predict and there are a lot of facts like drug addiction, family abuse, and alcoholism, that could lead to criminal behavior. Matt Vogel does believe that mentally ill people are capable of engaging in criminal behavior, but not in a high percentage. On the contrary Vogel did imply that drug addicts and alcoholics have a higher risk of criminal behavior and in my opinion I believe that he should not justify mentally ill actions by pointing to other people who struggle with their own addictions and problems. People who commit crimes because of their mental illness should not be imprisoned. When people have a mental illness or suffer through addiction from something they need help and not punishment. Mental health facilities and support groups is where someone with a mental disease belongs if they have committed a crime and not in prison. Society judges people and a lot of them believe that anyone who has a mental illness is more likely to commit crimes. The National Alliance of Mental Illness (NAMI) supports the idea that people with mental diseases need help and treatment not punishment and prison. John Junginger mentioned NAMI in his research and he as well supports that idea such as I do. Mentally ill people are capable of committing crimes just like any other person in this world, but I still believe that just being mentally ill alone is not enough for them to engage in criminal behavior. Most of the studies that where done on both mental ill and non-mental ill people show that a high percent of criminals commit crimes based on multiple facts combined. The combination of mental illness, alcoholism, abuse, drug addiction, unemployment, poverty, and criminal injustice, together then they could lead to criminal behavior. ADHD and schizophrenic patients were studied by Na Zhu and Michael Soyka. Both studies show that the disease slightly increased their criminal rates but not at a high percent. There are studies that Alfalatah 3 show a high connection between criminal behavior and mental illness; however, majority of the research I found showed either a small or no connection at all between the two. The prevention of criminal behavior should be our main goal and figuring the causes that lead to criminality. Some studies show that people are more likely to commit crimes after suffering through a severe trauma as mentioned from Stephane M Shepherd. Authority figures have a lot of power and if they help people in need then maybe we would have a better chance of lowering crime rates. Focusing on all the risk factors that lead to criminal behavior would be very helpful as well. Jillian Peterson believed that people engage in crimes because of emotional reactions, loathing for others, lack of restraint, and drug addiction. Peterson studied a hypothesis that basically indicates untreated psychiatric symptoms are a main cause for criminality. Only 7% of the participants support the hypothesis and that is why I believe that criminal behavior is indeed very complicated to understand. Criminal behavior is very broad the more you research and do studies about it the more you learn, but at the same time the more questions you have. There will always be a thousand of reasons that could lead to criminal behavior and there is no easy way to be sure if a certain individual will commit a crime in their life. Mentally ill people are just like any other person there is the bad and good in them and either being criticized and labeled or finding help and support will lead the person to act on either one. People need to try and make the world a better place that encourages and supports everyone to behave on the good inside them and not the other way around. It will take time and effort to lower the rate of criminal behavior, but it impossible if people try and work hard to make it happen. Do not judge anyone by a certain disease or addiction they might have because people should encourage and help one another to become the best person they can be. I believe that over time the rate of criminal behavior will Alfalatah 4 lower and that people will not be treated unjustly just because they have a mental illness, drug addiction, or are alcoholics, and there will be no more judgment. Works Cited Vogel, Matt. Illness and Criminal Sociology Compass, vol. 8, no. 4, 2014. pp. 337-346. doi:10.1111/soc4.12140. Junginger, John, and et, al. of Serious Mental Illness and Substance Abuse on Criminal Psychiatric Services, vol. 57, no. 6, 2006. pp. 879-882. doi:10.1176/ps.2006.57.6.879. Soyka, Michael, et.al. Correlates of Later Violence and Criminal Offences in Schizophrenia Research, vol. 94, no. 1-3, 2007. pp. 89-98. doi:10.1016/j.schres.2007.03.027. Zhu, Na, and et, al. Role of Inattention in the Relationship Between Mental Illness and Journal of Forensic Psychology Practice, vol. 13, no. 4, 2013. pp. 315-325. doi:10.1080/15228932.2013.817888. Peterson, Jillian, et al. Offense Patterns as a Function of Mental Illness to Test the Criminalization Psychiatric Services, vol. 61, no. 12, 2010. pp. 1217-1222. doi:10.1176/ps.2010.61.12.1217. Shepherd, Stephane M., and Rosemary Purcell. are the Factors Associated with Criminal Behaviour for Young People with Mental Health Psychiatry, Psychology and Law, vol. 22, no. 6, 2015. pp. 869-879. doi:10.1080/13218719.2015.1015399. Alfalatah 5