Copper 1 Corey M. Copper Ms. Basil ENC 1102 April 29, 2017 The End of The Smoking Era Every year organizations are continuing to decrease the smoking population in the United States. 2015, about 15 of every 100 U.S. adults aged 18 years or older currently smoke cigarettes. This means an estimated 36.5 million adults in the United States currently smoke cigarettes. More than 16 million Americans live with a smoking- related (CDC). The number of current cigarette smokers is continuously decreasing every year in America. Both smokers and non-smokers have an equal impact on this topic. I personally had seen the usage of tobacco products on my friends and some of my family. Instead of smoking cigarettes serving as a stress reliever for my friends and some of my relatives, it reduces their physical and mental health. To increase public awareness of the dangers of tobacco products to all the smokers on the USF campus, we must educate the USF smoking community through all social media platforms and promote the usage of healthy lungs. Are you fully aware of what substances or chemicals are used to make a single cigarette? smoke is made up of thousands of chemicals, including at least 70 known to cause cancer. The chemicals that can cause cancer are referred as (ACS). There are about five commonly used chemicals or substances that tobacco companies use to make their products. The common chemicals used to make a cigarette include: tar, ammonia, arsenic, methane, and nicotine. First, tar is mostly the main cause Copper 2 of lung cancer, because it can cause your lung cells to die when absorbed by the lungs. Second, ammonia is mostly known to be used for cleaning purposes only, so inhaling this substance sounds like a bad idea. Ammonia is known to destroy your immune system and very corrosive to the human body. Third, arsenic is a natural element that can be found in the earth, water, air, plants, and animals. Arsenic is mostly considered to be poisonous to people when at a high dosage, which can also cause cancer. Fourth, methane is mostly used to power our cars and other vehicles, but high levels of the methane gas can also very potent or toxic to humans. Finally, nicotine is the most commonly used chemical in all forms of tobacco products. Nicotine comes from tobacco plants, and mostly used in tobacco products and pesticides. The reason this chemical is the most destructive, even though it is not considered a carcinogen, it is still a very addictive chemical that can cause any person to be addicted to it when smoked only one time. Do you think that a cigarette is the only tobacco product that is considered dangerous to humans? In the national health survey for college students, of students favored cigarettes, 8.5% favored cigars, 3.7% favored smokeless tobacco products, and 1.2% favored (Rigotti). There are other common tobacco products that are just as bad or even worse than cigarettes. The common forms of tobacco products include: cigars, hookah, and smokeless Official State Website). Bidis (pronounced as bee-dees) are just like cigarettes, but they have higher concentrations of nicotine, tar, and carbon monoxide. Cigars are also just like cigarettes, but they are thicker and does not have a filter at the end of it. This type of tobacco product is the most dangerous, because it has the highest concentration of nicotine. Hookah is a pipe that smokes a combination of tobacco with either a fruit or vegetable Copper 3 that is heated then the smoke is filtered through water. According to a World Health Organization advisory, typical one-hour session of hookah smoking exposes the user to 100 to 200 times the volume of smoke inhaled from a single (World Health Organization). Smokeless tobacco products are tobacco substances that placed in your mouth or snorted into the nostrils. Chewing, oral, spit, and dipping tobacco are usually in the mouth, while snuff can be both put in the mouth or inhaled through the nose. Snuff is finely grounded tobacco that is packaged in cans or pouches. It is sold in two different types, which is either dry snuff or moist snuff. The moist snuff is put into the mouth just like the other smokeless tobacco products, but dry snuff is consumed by inhaling the substance through the nose. I personally have seen the destructiveness of tobacco products effect a well-being. For example, my uncle nicknamed Chipper was an avid smoker of cigarettes when he was twenty years old, but when he turned the age of forty is when he realized that his health started to decline. This is also the same time he quit smoking and turned his liking towards smokeless tobacco products, which he thought was a better a deal for a healthier lifestyle while still enjoying tobacco products. The reason he thought it was better because his friends told him that cheaper and healthier for him. The type of smokeless tobacco product he used was chew, which is where you put tobacco into your gums to absorb the nicotine. He did this for the next twenty-five or more years until he was diagnosed with lung and colon cancer. He was diagnosed with lung cancer, because of his twenty years of smoking in his younger days. He was diagnosed with colon cancer, because his chewing tobacco would sometimes be accidently swallowed, which was absorbed into the liver and then spread the cancer cells in his bloodstream throughout his Copper 4 body. His death like other people who have died from the use of tobacco products is preventable, because if the people had more knowledge about the tobacco products then they would have quit earlier. Now college students may be misinformed about tobacco products, because they may have never realized or have seen the damaging effects on a human being. If we provide education of this topic to the USF smoking community, then these smoke-related or tobacco-related deaths would be preventable. Now, there are two options that you can do to help make the University of South Florida a healthier community. The first option is for the community to do a one-day event that promotes the usage of healthy lungs and prevents the usage of any tobacco products. For example, doing one-day event of running to help promote the usage of healthy lungs. This event will help both the community and smokers to get back on track to living a healthy life. The second option is where we educate the smoking USF community and spread the news about how dangerous smoking is through all social media platforms, and try to start a trend or hash tag to stop the use of smoking tobacco products (e.g. #NoMoreTobacco or #CigKills). By promoting a trend or hash tag to stop the production of tobacco products in a civilized manner then we will achieve our goal to become a healthier community. Most of the chemicals used to make a cigarette are dangerous, but about seventy of the chemicals are considered to be cancer-causing chemicals. The commonly most used chemicals in cigarettes are tar, ammonia, arsenic, methane, and nicotine. Cigarettes the only products considered the only dangerous tobacco products to humans. Other tobacco products include that are also considered dangerous include: bidis, cigars, hookah, and smokeless tobacco. All of these tobacco products have dangerous chemicals Copper 5 and multiple types of cancer. In order to prevent any more tobacco-caused deaths then we as a community must spread the news and promote the usage of healthy lungs. important that we stop the usage of tobacco products and smoking because these deaths are easily preventable. Other organizations like Real and are also combatting tobacco companies and their tobacco products. You can help the community by getting people to be active in activities, or just by spreading the knowledge of how dangerous tobacco products are to people. Copper 6 Work Cited Cigarette Smoking Among Adults in the United Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 01 Dec. 2016. Web. 09 Apr. 2017 Chemicals in Tobacco American Cancer Society. American Cancer Society, 05 Apr. 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017 Rigotti, MD Nancy A. College Use of Tobacco JAMA. American Medical Association, 09 Aug. 2000. Web. 29 Apr. 2017 Advisory Note Waterpipe Tobacco Smoking: Health Effects, Research Needs and Recommended Actions by WHO. World Health Organization, 15 July 2009. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. of Tobacco Official State Website. Official State Website, 15 July 2009. Web. 09 Apr. 2017