Fernandez 1 Nicolo Fernandez Professor Udin 3 May, 2017 ENC 1101 MW 9:30-10:45 Legalize It The topic of whether Marijuana should be legal has been very controversial over the last ten years. Marijuana is cannabis that is prescribed by doctors to their patients to help patients with certain medical conditions. the introduction of the first medicinal marijuana firm, the legality of medical marijuana has been intensely debated are those who believe that legalizing it will benefit our country from a medical standpoint as well as economically. The opposing side argues that marijuana is a harmful drug and causes more problems when used. Legalizing marijuana potentially, may cause some problems for those who abuse it however the overall benefits of it, outweigh them. In 2005, a post-grad certified nurse specialist by the name Tracey Ashfield wrote an article in the Health In this article she wrote about a patient named Jack Bennett. He was diagnosed with MS in the early and 18 years later he was reporting symptoms of pain, muscle spasm and upper limb ataxia. (Ashfield) To lessen his pain he consumed conventional medicine, such as morphine sulfate. These however, only partially relieved his pain. He decided that he would smoke marijuana to help relieve his pain instead and he found that marijuana helped lessen his pain a Fernandez 2 significant amount more than the conventional medicine. However, the article states that if Jack smoked much cannabis, it seemed to worsen the ataxia and left jack very limp on (Ashfield). Tracey Ashfield conveyed how medical marijuana can help those with MS and strengthened the argument that marijuana can benefit those with health issues. However, she also shows how medically, it does need to be rationed because smoking too much marijuana can do more harm than good. Medical marijuana not only can help those with MS but it also can benefit those with other medical diseases. An article published in 2007 discussed a study about the of pain from peripheral neuropathy related to the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) through (Nursing,28) The study included fifty individuals who had HIV. The fifty individuals were split into two groups. One group smoked marijuana three times a day for a five day period while the other group smoked placebo cigarettes lacking cannabinoids. What they found was, average, those in the marijuana group reported neuropathic pain reduction of 34%, compared with 17% in the placebo (Nursing, 28) Clinically, a pain reduction greater than 30% is considered a significant level of improvement. This scholarly article claims that, study is significant as the first placebo controlled published research on the effectiveness of medical (Nursing, 28) HIV has been an issue in the United States for a long time. Many people have been affected by it both directly and indirectly. If medical marijuana can lessen the pain of HIV to those who have the disease, it not only will benefit them but also the people around them. Fernandez 3 Not only are there medical benefits to legalizing medical marijuana but also economical benefits. Business Insider explains how California anticipates the legalization of recreational marijuana in their state, will create huge revenue for them. They claim that, state capital region could reap 20,000 jobs and generate $4.2 billion in business if it becomes a hub for a legalized marijuana (Business) They go one to explain the proposition that they passed to legalize marijuana. The Proposition was passed November 8th, 2016. This means that retail sales are going to begin on November 9th, 2018 which leads to tax revenue. The article claims that, looking at an additional $1.5 billion flooding into the marijuana market. That number swells to just shy of $3 billion in 2019, and nearly $4 billion by 2020, based on the latest report from New Frontier Data and ArcView Market (Business) The proposition taxes marijuana two different ways. A and a of 15% The cultivation tax is for, from the marijuana plant often used to produce derivative THC-based (Business) such as the buds and leaves. This booming market is projected to create a massive amount of revenue to the state of California. If legalizing marijuana is as successful as they anticipate, that would be a huge backing point to legalize it nationally. Fernandez 4 There are many health benefits and economical benefits to medical marijuana. However, marijuana can still do harm. In 2012, Mu-Chen Li wrote an article in Epidemiologic called Use And Motor Vehicle The article discusses how marijuana played a vital role in the increase in motor vehicle crashes. By 2012, 16 states at the time and the District of Columbia had passed law to decriminalize marijuana for medical use . Li discusses in the article how her and her colleagues, a meta-analysis of 9 epidemiologic studies published in the past 2 decades identified through a systematic search of bibliographic (Li) using articles and data of two decades. They found that as states began to decriminalize marijuana, motor vehicle crashes associated with marijuana usage significantly increased. Along with this, Julie B. Wang, an employee at the Center of Tobacco Control Research and Educations, Cardiovascular Research Institute, conducted a study using regression models to estimate the odds of having nicotine dependence among current cigarette smokers who also reported past 30-day marijuana (Wang). They found that where medical marijuana is legal, there is also an increase in cigarette usage. (Wang) Although there is a significant increase in motor vehicle crashes along with a number of other disadvantages, the benefits cannot be ignored. far more advantageous for the country as a whole to legalize Marijuana can help the country medically by helping those with diseases such as HIV, MS, glaucoma, anxiety, etc. It can also help the economy due to how massive of a market marijuana is. If the Fernandez 5 government were to tax marijuana, they could create huge revenue for the government/economy. Marijuana could help the country get out of debt and help those with medical issues where conventional drugs, do not help them significantly. Works Cited 1. Ashfield, Tracey. Cannabis Use In Multiple  Health 15.6 (2005): 25-29. Search Web. 13 Feb. 2017. 2. Gilbert, Ben. California Just Legalized Marijuana, and Going to Have a Huge Impact on the  Business Insider, 09 Nov. 2016. Web. 25 Apr. 2017. 3. Li, Mu-Chen, et al. Marijuana Use And Motor Vehicle  34.1 (2012): 65. Provided Full Text Searching Web. 13 Feb. 2017. 4. Medical Marijuana: Good  37.4 (2007): 28-29. Search Web. 13 Feb. 2017. 5. Reuters. Capital Could to Cannabis What Detroit Is to Business Insider, 18 Oct. 2016. Web. 25 Apr. 2017. 6. Wang, Julie B., et al. Full Length Article: Medical Marijuana Legalization And Cigarette And Marijuana Co-Use In Adolescents And  And Alcohol 166.(2016): 32-38. Web. 13 Feb. 2017.