Fiallo 1 Joshua Fiallo Professor De Carion ENC 1102 27 April 2017 Do College Athletes Get Their Fair Share? The National College Players Association (NCPA) believes that student athletes should be paid if they bring profit to their Universities. The governing body of College athletics, the NCAA, believes that paying student athletes would be an infringement on the culture of college athletics, and would deter student athletes focus to strictly their sport. The NCPA released two images onto their website that use rhetorical appeals, particularly pathos, in order to gain support in their fight against the NCAA to pay college athletes more than just a scholarship. Established in 1906, the NCAA has served as the governing body of college athletics, and has represented pursuit of excellence in both academics and (NCAA.com). The NCAA believes that college athletes should be amateurs - not paid - in order to keep college athletics and while keeping student athletes focused on their academics over sports. The NCAA believes that school should come first because, for the majority of sports, less than 3% of college athletes go pro (gcic.peachtree.edu). Being that the vast majority of student athletic careers end their senior year of college, the NCAA implements no-pay rules so academics will come first for the athletes, leading to more successful careers once their playing days have come to an end. The NCAA believes that best for schools to have limited scholarship money available for allocation to athletes. This provides incentive for athletes to work hard and receive an academic scholarship. Fiallo 2 The National College Players Association (NCPA) is an organization ran by ex-college athletes, whose goal is to protect the rights of student athletes, and act in the best interest (ncpanow.org). One of the biggest issues the NCPA fights for is to pay student athletes, as well as push for a NCAA rule change that would allow schools to allocate more money to providing scholarships. College athletes put in hours of hard work for their athletic programs, in some cases enough hours to be equivalent to working a full time job. Working hours like that, the NCPA believes that these athletes should at least have the opportunity to receive more than just a free education from their schools, and at the very least, schools should be allowed to give out more scholarship money, allowing more athletes to go to school for free. According to an article published in the Cardozo Arts and Entertainment Law Journal, NCAA and its member institutions reportedly earn upwards of $11 billion per (Jorgensen, 3). With numbers like that, the NCPA is puzzled as to why schools cannot give out scholarships to more athletes if the money is there, and believes that through the use of rhetorical appeal in images they release, be able to convince more people to think the same way. To start off, both NCPA images appeal to pathos, making the viewers of the images feel bad for college athletes. The first image depicts a singular thief stealing the money from college athletes. This symbolizes that just one organization, the NCAA, is robbing the college athletes out of the money that they earn. Placing the thief robbing a locker room adds to the appeal to pathos even more, showing that is indeed the athletes themselves who are being stolen from the most by the NCAA. the players who keep their little in the locker room, not the coaches, or the president of the University. Placing the robbery in the locker room shows that the athletes, and only the athletes who are being slighted by the NCAA. The second image is more straightforward with its appeal to pathos, showing two athletes pulling an expensive car Fiallo 3 which represents the NCAA. The image sends the message that athletes do all of the hard, dirty work in order to make the Universities, and the NCAA rich. The car that they are pulling is also made to look like a luxury car, to symbolize that the athletes are not only making money for the NCAA, but are making them filthy rich. Adding the quotes from the players adds background information on what athletes receive, and do not receive from their Universities. This shows consumers who familiar with college athletics exactly how much the athletes receive for their hard work. The images also appeal to ethos, particularly in the first. Inserting the statistic into the image, it gives the viewers a sense of credibility and deeper understanding of just how much money the NCAA makes from college athletics. 6-Billion is such a large amount of money that it catches the eyes of consumers, making them want to find out more about how they make so much. The consumers on the website then want to read the entirety of the article that the image sits a-top off on the website. The second image makes a slight appeal to ethos when the athlete on the left lists all of the things that he cannot receive. The images do not appeal to logos at all. However, both images make subtle appeals to Kairos inciting the consumers of the images to act fast. The first image depicts a thief stealing money from college athletes. Using this approach, it gives consumers the feel that they need to act now, as in real life call the cops if you saw somebody stealing money, especially 6 billion worth. This will convince people to join the fight against the NCAA now, not later. The second images also makes an appeal to Kairos, showing people who see it that if they act fast then college athletes will eventually start to burn out. In conclusion, the NCPA aims to gain support in their fight to force the NCAA into rule changes that would allow college athletes earn extra scholarships, or even be paid. The images Fiallo 4 looked to pull their consumers in through rhetorical appeals, and did so successfully, particularly using pathos, and successful in doing so. Fiallo 5 Works Cited: Official Site of the NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA, www.ncaa.org/. Career Information Georgia Career Information Center, www.gcic.peachnet.edu/. About NCPA National College Players Association, www.ncpanow.org/about. Jorgensen, Amber. Why Collegiate Athletes could have the NCAA singing a different  Cardozo Arts & Entertainment Law Journal 33.2 (2015): 367-420. Art & Architecture Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Wolverton, Brad. The Myth of the Sports  Chronicle of Higher Education 25 Nov. 2016: A12. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gaines, Cork. Shows How Little of College Sports Revenues Goes to The Business Insider, Business Insider, 24 Sept. 2014, www.businessinsider.com/college- sports-revenue-athlete-scholarships-2014-9. Fiallo 6