Calvin Courtney Bob Botkin ENC 1102 4/30/17 1 Why America Should Not Continue using the Electoral College There are few topics that have been the subject of as much controversy for as much time, as the Electoral College. Since its inception, Americans have disagreed over the use of the Electoral College, and its place in our election system. Those that support it typically believe that America needs the Electoral College to evenly distribute power across America, and ensure that the whole nation is accounted for. However, the Electoral College is an unfair system that gives disproportionate power to certain states, limits our potential for great presidents, and generally hurts America. To ensure the continued prosperity of America, action must be taken to taken to abolish the Electoral College and install a National Popular model of voting. The Electoral College is the system used by the United States to elect new presidents and vice-presidents every four years. Each state is given a number of electoral votes that reflects the population of the state. In most states, citizens vote on which candidate to give all the electoral votes to. The candidate that then wins the majority of the 538 electors across the nation, wins the presidency. Throughout history, there have been five occasions where the president did not win the National Popular vote. This means that twelve percent of our presidents were not desired by the majority of Americans. As America is a global leader, and sets examples for many developing countries around the world, it is the responsibility of the people of America to ensure that the nation be led by the best possible candidate. Not only does the Electoral College allow for the possibility of the winner being the candidate that received the least number of votes, but it 2 also discourages the formation of new parties and therefore potential presidential candidates. This is because our bi-partisan legislation makes it nearly impossible for any candidate from a party outside of democrats and republicans to win the presidency, and therefore campaigning for president would be a waste of time and money for any third-party candidate. Another problem caused by the Electoral College is excessive amount of power given to swing states. Swing are states that have historically proven to be equally likely to vote for either party. Candidates campaign almost exclusively in such states, because they know that safe states will most likely vote for their party no matter what. This leaves the citizens of safe states uninformed about the candidates. Furthermore, candidates do not pay equal attention to the issues facing the people of states with fewer electoral votes, as such states are not as valuable. The best option to replace the Electoral College would be to use a National Popular Model. This would mean that the winner of the presidency is simply the candidate that wins the most votes across the entire nation. By adopting this model, we would no longer have a bi- partisan legislature, and candidates from third parties would be equally likely to win, giving us more options for great presidents. The first step in moving towards a nation with a better and more just form of election, is simply educating. Being aware of the fallacies of the Electoral College, and teaching others about them, are essential to its abolition. There is reason to be optimistic about the future of our election system, as, according to one internet journalist, percent of registered voters think that the popular vote should be the deciding factor in future elections, and 45 percent think the Electoral College should remain in place. Three percent of those polled were (Munsil, Poll: Majority of Americans believe popular vote, not electoral college, should decide elections). Staying up to date with organizations such as and can Calvin Courtney Bob Botkin ENC 1102 4/30/17 3 allow Americans to be informed of any new bills or proposals to amend the Electoral College, and can also inform people of ways that they can support such proposals. form of election is an overcomplicated, outdated system that devalues the votes of some Americans, limits our potential for great presidents, and causes candidates to ignore parts of the country. It is within best interest to replace the Electoral College with a National Popular model of voting, as this would allow for equally valued votes, more variety of presidential candidates, and equal attention paid to the needs of all parts of the country. To make this better method of election a reality, the public must be aware of the problems caused by the Electoral College, as well as the ways that they can support its abolition. 4 Works Cited The Electoral College: Top 3 Pros and  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 May 2017. FairVote.org.  FairVote. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 May 2017. Poll: Majority of Americans think popular vote should  TheBlaze. TheBlaze, 19 Dec. 2016. Web. 01 May 2017. Agreement Among the States to Elect the President by National Popular  National Popular Vote. N.p., 30 Mar. 2017. Web. 01 May 2017.