Rodrigo Caldas Prof. Uddin ENC 1101 04/20/2017 Afghanistan War, Finish the Mission! Before the Iraq war, the US military was engaged in war in Afghanistan, and stayed long after U.S. troops were withdrawn from Iraq. Most U.S. troops have withdrawn from Afghanistan; however, this was done without a complete resolution to the power struggle in the country. While the U.S. military conducted operations against terror in Afghanistan, they also provided security for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) while aid was distributed to the affected civilians in the area. The military carried out humanitarian missions that built infrastructure like schools and hospitals in addition to providing food and water to people across the land. While the military did a lot of productive fighting against extremists, issues were identified with the conduct of some military personnel. The International Humanitarian Law (IHL) was avoided and in some cases ignored completely. There are well documented cases of neglect of IHL like the abuse of detainees at Abu Ghraib prison by the military and the torture methods of interrogation which included waterboarding and sleep deprivation conducted by CIA operatives and military interrogators. These actions have long-lasting effects on the Afghanistan and American populations. Worse still are the atrocities committed against U.S. troops, for example the live broadcasts depicting the beheading of U.S. military personnel and civilian contractors who were captured. The citizens of the world expect that even countries at war abide by the articles of the Geneva Convention that cover the treatment of Prisoners of War. The Taliban, the Afghan people, whom they threaten with executing their families, and even some U.S. military personnel have shown a disregard for the IHL which led the U.S. people, NATO and the rest of the world to ask for more strict regulations concerning war crimes and for violators to be held accountable for their actions. However even with all the negative things that comes with war, worse things comes from inaction. Since the U.S. withdrew its military force from Afghanistan the situation is getting worse every day. Since the United States of Rodrigo Caldas 2 P a g e America has the means to intervene, the government has a duty to act on behalf of those who cannot defend themselves. Once the U.S. Government made the decision to withdraw troops from Afghanistan in 2011, the media and scholars began to highlight the humanitarian relief efforts and the aid provided to civilians on the ground in Afghanistan. NATO oversaw most humanitarian aid missions, which are clearly chronicled on their website and range from providing the basic necessities to maintain life, constructing infrastructure such as schools, hospitals and homes, in addition to providing security for the civilian population of Afghanistan. The end goal, to stabilize the region, was progressing. NATO defines their involvement in the war, mission was to enable the Afghan authorities to provide effective security across the country and ensure that it would never again be a safe-haven for terrorists. [International Security Assistance ISAF helped build the capacity of the Afghan national security (1). NATO, with the assistance of U.S. troops effectively provided what it promised. The U.S. Government achieved most of its short-term goals in the region, the extremists where pushed out of their strong holds, the civilian population began to recover in stable safe-zones and the Afghan national security force continued training in preparation to take the reins in maintaining security in the region. Like many scholars, Mrs. Haysom, who is an independent researcher at the Open Data Institute in London, spoke out on behalf of the accomplishments in Afghanistan. In her journal article titled need to love Civil-Military Relations in in the Stability: International Journal of Security and Development from 2013, she emphasizes, affairs teams hired private contractors to execute the work, which included the construction of schools, clinics, wells, and other small projects intended to establish good relations with Afghans and collect (5). Good relation programs were ongoing throughout the war effort; however, it only became newsworthy after the U.S. government issued the withdrawal order. The rules of engagement in most areas of Afghanistan included criteria that began with minimal use of force, and cultural advisors were Rodrigo Caldas 3 P a g e employed to map the origins and dynamics of local conflicts and help develop stabilization approaches, with limited use of force and only on the basis of concrete (Haysom 5-6). These facts illustrate the support provided by NATO and U.S. Forces. Haysom continues by relaying: as part of a approach, derived in part from British strategy against communist insurgents in Malaya in the 1950s and adapted by the US in Iraq, civilian officials were meant to assist in the phase by supporting governance and service provision once areas had been of insurgents by the military (9). U.S. troops worked hand-in-hand with NATO to remove insurgents and reestablish viable communities for many civilians. On the NATO website in the article titled and the efforts and successes are displayed, helped create a secure environment for improving governance and socio-economic development, which are important conditions for sustainable (2). With the basics well underway, the focus is to help develop a governing body to prevent the extremists from regaining control. The list of accomplishments is extensive: November 2002: The US military starts setting up Provincial Reconstruction Teams (PRTs) in Afghanistan first in Gardez, then Bamiyan, Kunduz, Mazar-e-Sharif, Kandahar and Herat to coordinate redevelopment with UN agencies and non-governmental organizations. Some of these PRTs are later taken over by NATO member and partner countries 1 January 2015: The Resolute Support Mission (RSM) is launched to continue to provide training, advice and assistance to the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces(ANDSF) (NATO 11). Many programs started, however most were not completed and some were not done correctly. Some Scholars use events that developed from U.S. military misconduct in the early years of the war on terror to coerce the U.S. Government to withdraw troop from Afghanistan prematurely because they oppose any American involvement in the Afghanistan war. Professor Ved Nanda is one scholar who Rodrigo Caldas 4 P a g e opposes U.S. involvement in the war in Afghanistan. Nanda highlights the biggest known offences committed in Afghanistan: Debate continues over the U.S. executive, legislative, and judicial responses to the terrorist attacks of 9/11, and the U.S.-led military action in Afghanistan and then in Iraq. So too does the criticism of the treatment of detainees in Guantanamo Bay and the Abu Ghraib prison, the use of interrogation techniques, and the U.S. ambivalence regarding the application of international humanitarian law, especially the Geneva Conventions, and of international human rights law to those detained pursuant to the war on terror. (15). With this passage, Nanda puts into question the U.S. actions to achieve justice for the terrorist attacks of 9/11. He lists the issues that arose in the war on terror in Afghanistan, like the mistreatment of detainees in Guantanamo Bay and Abu Ghraib prison, to illustrate the misconduct of U.S. military and lack of oversight from the U.S. government. Dr. David Forsythe from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln focuses on the same issues as Nanda in his article United States and International Humanitarian in the Journal of Human Rights in 2008. He states, Guantanamo, by late 2002 harsh conditions and abusive interrogation were part of a conscious policy implemented by regular military personnel at a regular military (Forsythe 30). Dr. Forsythe uses the term to explicitly affirm that the U.S. military did not take the mentioned actions by accident. Dr. Forsythe continues with. police were instructed to the prisoners for military intelligence; the latter being instructed to use various abusive (30). Using these comments from actual military police and confidential intelligence sources, Dr. Forsythe demonstrates that the procedures the military personnel took came from specific orders as opposed to decisions they made of their own volition. In addition to the military shortcomings, Dr. Forsythe also analyses the part the CIA played in mistreatment of detainees. Dr. Forsythe asserts, spring 2002 the CIA began to hold another set of prisoners, presumably Rodrigo Caldas 5 P a g e value in secret (30). The term value refers to suspects that may have valuable information on the activities of terrorists, however, holding them in secret sites means that the CIA has complete autonomy on how to treat the detainees and what methods can be used to extract the desired information. He explains: evidence suggests that at least some of the perhaps one hundred detainees held from time to time in these black sites were subjected to exposure to extremes of heat and cold, sleep deprivation, and other forms of coercive interrogation . . . in both Afghanistan from late 2001 and Iraq from spring 2003, where one finds armed conflict and for a time occupation in the legal sense, again there is much circumstantial evidence of a pattern of harsh detention conditions and abusive interrogation in military and CIA (Forsythe 30). Actions taken by the U.S. military and CIA, like water boarding and short shackling, are greatly frowned upon by the general American public. However, these incidents include a small fraction of the military efforts. Though they are egregious, they cannot prevent the U.S. government from returning to Afghanistan to provide life sustaining support to people in desperate need. Humanity is not perfect and people make mistakes and bad choices, however the small misguided few must not stop a moral country from aiding humans in need. Afghanistan is a war zone with or without American involvement, but America has the means and the will to provide security to a desperate population with no alternative recourse. It is true that war is violent and American soldiers will die if the U.S. returns to Afghanistan. However, how can this country sit idly by as men are killed for having an opinion, women are slain for being women and children are enslaved and brainwashed into terrorism? American people are better than that, America needs to show that terror is not only bad in America, but anywhere in the world. Rodrigo Caldas 6 P a g e Works Cited Forsythe, David P. The United States And International Humanitarian  Journal Of Human Rights 7.1 (2008): 25-33. Academic Search Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Haysom, Simone, and Ashley Jackson. need to love Civil-Military Relations in Stability: International Journal of Security and Development, 6 Aug. 2013, dx.doi.org/10.5334/sta.by. Accessed 10 Feb. 2017. Nanda, Ved P. Preemptive And Preventive Use Of Force, Collective Security, And Human  Denver Journal Of International Law & Policy 33.1 (2004): 7-15. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 5 Feb. 2017. and NATO, 13 Oct. 2016, Accessed 28 Feb. 2017.