Vieira 1 Karen Vieira Sarah Basil WST 2250.797S17 16 April 2017 From Drooling in FYC Classes to Salivating Over Them Mandatory first year english composition courses are the norm across college campuses and not any secret what lack of enthusiasm they instil in students across the nation. Less known though are the discrepancies between the actual curriculum of these courses at different universities. In fact, this subject matter comes with a particular achilles heel that allows students to foster constructive change, but blinding circumstances thus far have generated a sit down and try to simply not sleep through class mentality. By educating fellow peers, engaging them in the conversation, and demonstrating realistic and relatively simplistic forms to enact change there is hope of reimagining first year composition courses into something truly worthwhile for every individual. I believe every senioritis inflicted college bound student has felt the anxious itch to move on to college while they were in that one class. You know which one talking about; high school demanded you take it to graduate and every day you sat in class that one question came up: why were you doing this at all if not just for the grade? never going to use this in your life. a real struggle and one the promise of college, where you would be taking courses to do with your own interests, pleasantly alleviated. But the thing as though rising from the dead common core courses cling to you with rotting zombie flesh. not pleasant; and in case like to add salt to the wound, this time spending some serious bucks to Vieira 2 partake in them. At first glance the whole thing seems utterly irrational but one venturing to taking a closer look will come to the startling conclusion that universities are not simply sadists, and neither are first year composition professors. There is an actual reason why comp classes are imbedded into all students schedules and it seems the solution to this enigma lies in the concept of transferable skill sets. Communication is simply important. The ability to accurately compose an essay will most likely be required for higher level college courses. More importantly skill in accurately communicating their ideas and theories, or lack thereof, has the capacity to haunt a person for the rest of their careers. Despite the awareness of how vital these courses are many universities had the best luck insuring their students depart with truly transferable knowledge. In a study which placed college seniors (those of which had partaken in courses such as these in their freshman years and who were students with excellent track records as academic in several writing based internships found that these students utterly devastated by their performance; they were despondent and crushed by and this just after the first week of their on the job writing et This in itself must lead to pause for it is something to get by and stomach a course one simply find tasteful but another to realize you are missing something that may be valuable in the future. If you believe you learned anything, you must then be wondering what you may have missed. Simply put we must advocate for the advancement of FYC courses not only because we lay our money down to attend them, not only because we are forced to spend our precious time to attend them, but because the skills they are attempting to grace us with are crucial to our futures. Vieira 3 After making the deliberate choice to put our education in our own hands, the constructs of first year composition pedagogy is on our side. in writing studies regarding subject matter for first-year composition courses are controversial. There is no consensus on what is appropriate subject matter in academic writing and due to this no set guide on how these courses should be constructed or taught (Friedman 78). In other words, there have been worlds of research done on different first year composition teaching styles, each one with its own For example, if students major concern consists to interest in the class advocating for a FYC curriculum which mirrors Duke would be the course to take. There when students take an FYC course they have a choice between several sections of the course. Each section focuses on different topics from literature to religious mysticism, militia movements to and much more Thompson Writing is just a taste of what is out there though. An educated student body who is willing to take the time to ponder it wants to gain from its mandatory courses can curtail a curriculum with the capacity to bind them to success and at the very least assure they encounter a stimulating and entertaining environment every time they walk into their classrooms. There are other reasons ruling out having direct influence on change to consider when making the decision to get involved. and educators are suited to slow change. Much more like clergy or families than businesses because teachers are charged with raising the young and cultivating values that sustain the work of schools and teachers is intensely personal and demands a degree of continuity and posterity. In this way, resistance to change in schools is normal and, to a degree, necessary; there needs to be a Vieira 4 balance between a long-lasting, predictable ethos that transcends generations and the healthy adaptations that acknowledge different needs from one generation to the next. In this sense, change can be interpreted two ways: as a risk, insult, or threat to the traditions and autonomy of teachers; and, simultaneously, as an opportunity for reflection and improvement on the status (qtd. In Olaf). Change is not something that all will get behind at first because it is inherently different from routine, what makes most comfortable. The university and professors will require a push but the tools to accomplish such are within your reach. The Student Government at USF states that mission to be the premier opportunity in becoming engaged, provide the setting for all students to be equally heard and represented, and maximally enhance each experience and (Student Government University of South Florida). By communicating with your representatives or alternatively becoming an active member any student of USF has the capacity to enact change. Their purpose is to hear and represent so speak and generate a cause for them to represent. A more direct approach would be to go to page for first year composition. Here not only can you find all the information you may need to know about our current curriculum but you can also find the team behind the scenes and contact them on what change you would like to see (First Year Composition). One message may seem like nothing but when one comes from every undergraduate student on campus one turns to (Office of Decision Support). With these resources before you the only thing standing in the way of an enjoyable class where an ample amount of information is ready for the reaping is yourself. First year composition classes for all will remain a part of college curriculums despite the fact we may have vastly discret future plans. They hold the capacity to deposit crucial Vieira 5 communication skills into us at the very beginning of our new educational journey with the hope we take our time to refine them while here so we may be ready for the real world. The courses we are taking now though proved to truly help and they accurately engaging students. We must then take the job of rebooting them into our own hands through the means of engaging both the university and professors in a serious conversation concerning our wishes for improvement. The solution to our problems is only as small as our imagination and our capacity to enact it as possible as our thirst for it. Vieira 6 Cited Work Coxwell-Teague, Deborah, and Ronald F. Lunsford. Composition: From Theory to N.p.: Parlor Press, 2014. Lauer Ser. in Rhetoric and Composition. of South Florida Libraries Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Duke Thompson Writing  University Thompson Writing Program: Writing N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. First Year USF English Department, n.d. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. Friedman, Sandie. This Way For Vampires: Teaching First Year Composition in Challenging  in Teaching & Learning 2013 6.1 (2013): 77-84. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Jorgenson, Olaf. Independent School  Curriculum Change Is Difficult and N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Office of Decision  System Facts Office of Decision Support University of South N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Student Government University of South  Student N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017.