ALSHAMSI 1 Hamdan Alshamsi Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 30/04/2017 Global Warming Global warming is a global issue. Humans, animals, and plants everything is effected from it. Reptiles especially lizards are affected by the phenomenon of global warming. Global warming is considered as a threat for the future of the world because not only humans are affected by it but also the animals and plants. This article will discuss different conditions of world because of global warming majorly the changes in hydro cycle because temperature change leads to the fast evaporation of ocean water in air, and finally, the extinction of reptiles specifically lizards. First and major evidence in the regard of lizard extinction is change in temperature of earth. Some species are cold blooded and some are warm blooded. This difference in the nature of species matters a lot. Lizards cannot survive in extreme temperature. Although researchers have not been able to give a global scale of animal extinction, there exist evidence, which show that climate change is directly related to reptile extinction. Moreover, the rate of extinction lizard extinction was low, but scientist predicted that the number is likely to rise in the coming years Sinervo clarified in his article that the extinction of lizards may be not a major issue before 2010 but in future, if not controlled, it may cause this species to cease from existence (Sinervo, et al. 894). ALSHAMSI 2 Collins et al in his explained the reason of global warming, he explained that how global warming increase the temperature. The rise in temperature is further carried by winds through the ocean. how these changes are directly linked to lizard extinction. A phenomenon of rise in temperature that results in overheating of oceanic water surface. Tropical Eastern Trade winds carrying enough temperature to cause the overheating in ocean surface continues to blow along the equatorial regions that cause more rise in temperature because of massive evaporation from ocean. Southward become less sever in all this process. Similarly, other oceans also face such situations because this climate change is separating overall the world. Collins further anticipated that in near future weather conditions will be affected more negatively if the same process continue. This will further rise the risks. (Collins 393). Further explaining the situations by which global warming occur and affect lizards. Some writers explained the above-mentioned change in temperature and evaporation of water that cause different temperature in different regions by experiments. In 2006 article Responses of the Hydrological Cycle to Global Held and Brian further explained these changes in weather conditions by oceanic vapors by using moisture models and the atmospheric conditions on different levels. According to their research very important consequence of the increase in lower- tropospheric water is the increase in horizontal vapor transport within the Precipitation continues to increase in lower troposphere, heat decrease. So, the change in temperature is relevant to the change in lowest 2 KM of troposphere because there is where the massive amount of water vapors stay that is why even a slight change of heat in atmosphere and ocean will lead to the change of weather conditions (Held, Brian 5691-5692). ALSHAMSI 3 Boyle stresses on the same situation with another perspective. He provides evidence that, even if the temperature will continue to rise with 3% per year, this will be a slight change but with the same rate in next 100 years the temperature will rise to such extent that the dependent on temperature will not be able to reproduce, their reproduction system will be affected severely and without the system of reproduction they will cease from the existence. This indicates that the slow production rate of reptiles in current years can leads to the zero percentage of reproduction process in next 100 years (Boyle 35). So, there are two possibilities here, about the extinction of lizards. First is the natural death of lizards by the change of temperature, in this case lizards will simply not be able to adopt the changing environment conditions, this will cause their extinction. Second is the difficulty in reproduction. We must cautiously interpret the predictions underlying this meta-analysis. The majority of studies extrapolate correlations between current climate and species distributions to novel conditions and omit important biological mechanisms, including species interactions, evolution, habitat degradation, and intraspecific trait variation. Evolution can decrease extinction risks by allowing populations to adapt to changing climates, whereas anthropogenic landscape barriers can increase risks by limiting dispersal into newly suitable habitats. Next-generation models for estimating extinction risks should incorporate these factors in order to increase biological realism and therefore the accuracy of future predictions (Urban C. Mark 573). Another problem that is causing the extinction of lizards due to global warming and climate change is the stop in reproduction of lizards due to change in their metabolism and size of their bodies. Warm climatic conditions were mostly beneficial at juvenile stages as juvenile survival during the summer was only slightly decreased in our experimentally warmer climates, ALSHAMSI 4 with overall 30% of juveniles from all populations surviving their first year, as in natural populations (Bestion 7). Now if we observe the process, we can clearly see a pattern. As Henry Gastineau said Industrial Revolution and modernization was the cause of global warming in start of 20 th century. This global warming extended to a whole new level with each development in industrial sector. Humans developed such technologies for their facilitation that enhance global warming. This global warming leads to the climate change. The climate change focuses on the rise of temperature. This rise of temperature is not adoptable by reptiles especially lizards. They are dying from metabolic changes, reproduction problems, etc. Evidence from different researches of well-known writers prove this dangerous situation. Concluding the topic, by all the logical writings and experiments, global warming is a dangerous phenomenon. Many species including lizards are endangered. This species is living on the planet from thousands of years. Humans need to understand the situation. This rise in temperature can harm them too in future. But now, as a living being lizards need saving. So, humans should not only consider the current situation but they also have to watch for the future. Otherwise this specie will extinct from the face of earth. ALSHAMSI 5 Work Cited Boyle, Maria, et al. Dispersal and climate warming determine range shift in model reptile  Ecological Modelling, vol. 32, no. 8, 2016, pp. 35. Collins, Mat, et.al. Impact of global warming on the tropical Pacific Ocean and El  Nature Geoscience, vol. 3, no. 6, 2010, pp. 393. Held, Isaac M., and Soden Brian J. Robust responses of the hydrological cycle to global  Journal of Climate, vol. 19, no. 21, 2006, pp. 5691-5692. Sinervo, Barry, et al. Erosion of lizard diversity by climate change and altered thermal  Science, vol. 328, no. 5980, 2010, pp. 894. Urban, Mark C. Accelerating extinction risk from climate  Science, vol. 348, no. 6234, 2015, pp. 573. Bestion, Elvire, et al. Live fast, die young: experimental evidence of population extinction risk due to climate  PLoS Biol 13.10, e1002281 ,2015, pp. 7.