Lambotharan Vijayan Cat Modlin Jackson ENC1101 04/09/2017 Hydrogen Fuels Hydrogen is known to be the best alternative energy source throughout the world. advantages are not just limited to being the cleanest possible energy but also rather known for infamous ability to be renewed. The use of hydrogen fuel can help us save the current ongoing issues such as global warming, geopolitical tensions such as the wars for fossil fuels, pollution and many more. Hydrogen is the most abundant element in the entire universe. However, the gravity is too low to trap the less dense hydrogen gasses. That is why it is not readily available to be processed and to be put in production. Hydrogen has been mainly produced by using a method called steam methane reformation, where the hydrogens are produced by separating it from the methane carbon chains which emits a lot of greenhouse gasses to the atmosphere. Recent studies has now indicated that hydrogen can be produced using a variety of methods without causing any greenhouse effects which includes renewable electrolysis, gasification, renewable liquid reforming, high-temperature thermochemical water- splitting, biological, and photoelectrochemical processes. This diversity of production methods makes hydrogen a promising energy carrier and enables hydrogen production almost anywhere in the world. Electrolysis is the future of hydrogen production from renewable resources. Electrolysis is known as the process of using high voltage electric current to split water into hydrogen and oxygen. Electrolysis takes place in a reaction chamber called an electrolyzer. Hydrogen produced through electrolysis does not emit any greenhouse gasses. According to Noriah Bidin, high voltage electricity in water will break the hydrogen bonds in the water and split water into hydrogen and oxygen without emitting any harmful harmful However, generating high voltage current may require mass amounts of energy produced from fossil fuels which would still end up producing concentrated amounts of greenhouse gases. Also if the production of hydrogen is going to use up vast amounts of water the seas and rivers will soon dry up. use of solar panels to use sunlight energy to power electricity in homes has been long developed. The same concept is now being applied to power (Noriah Bidin 134). Also by using fossil fuels to generate electricity for electrolysis just to produce hydrogen would still lessen the effect of the current pollution level. Because fossil fuels will not be used as a primary source of energy but more of an energy used to produce only hydrogen. Furthermore, when hydrogens are used as fuel the byproducts which are released will be water and heat. Therefore, the water is returned back to earth and thus the seas or the rivers would not end up drying, making hydrogen the fuel of the future. electrolysis is a very clean and efficient way to produce hydrogen, this method produce enough hydrogen to sustain the energy (Maan Al-Zareer 221). Therefore, many other methods have been further investigated and experimented to produce more hydrogen. Biomass is a renewable organic resource which includes wastes that are decomposable, such as forest residues, animal wastes any more. This renewable resource is now being used to produce hydrogen along with other byproducts through a method called gasification. According to Adeel Ahmed gasification is a method that uses a controlled process of involving heat, steam and oxygen to convert biomass to hydrogen and other products without (1376). But gasification is a method which not only produces hydrogen, gasification is also a method known to produce carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide. Which means the environment would still be polluted. Although gasification somewhat produces a small amount of carbon dioxide, the total carbon dioxide emissions from gasification could be nullified by using the carbon capture method. Furthermore the growing of biomass would need large scale of carbon dioxide, hence the growing of biomass would remove the excessive amounts of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere which indeed would reduce global warming. This method is relatively new and it has an amazing potential of not emitting any greenhouse gasses. This other process which produces hydrogen would be the thermochemical water splitting method. According to Maan Al-Zareer method uses heat collected from concentrated solar power or the heat collected from nuclear power reactors and other chemical reactions to produce hydrogen and oxygen from (229). Thermochemical water splitting uses high temperatures which drives a series of chemical reactions to produce hydrogen. The chemicals used in this process are reused in every cycle to create a close loop that only uses up water and produces hydrogen and oxygen. If high amounts of heat is trapped and used to split water the aquatic animals and plants will be soon endangered. This means the thermochemical water splitting method would still harm the ecosystem which lives in water. As mentioned, this technique is relatively new and many research is being further conducted to make this method as optimal as possible. At the moment, this process is being conducted in a closed environment where animals or plants are not harmed. Thermochemical water splitting has so much potential because it splits up the hydrogen bonds in water to split water into hydrogen and oxygen and it give away greenhouse gasses because the energy is solely dependent on heat. Thermochemical water splitting could produce mass amounts of hydrogens if it is fully optimized, which in return could help many energy starving countries. The current infrastructure that we live in today has already been molded and developed to use gasoline which is extracted from fossil fuels. It would not only be difficult but also cause massive problems to replace the existing infrastructure and to do so it will cost a huge sum of money to replace everything there is today. According to L.M Das, on engines have long took place and after conducting many studies on the engines, it has been concluded that that the existing spark engines in vehicles do not need to be changed or molded to a new (750). The current infrastructure can actually burn hydrogen fuels without a problem and works perfectly fine. Not only that, it also has been found that the less dense property of hydrogen actually gives more energy than gasoline. In conclusion, hydrogen fuels are currently being further researched for their convenience and possibilities to be used in many sectors for a better environment. Hydrogen does not exist readily on earth and thus is not a naturally occurring energy source but more of an energy carrier. Currently the production method of hydrogen is mostly made from methane and fossil fuels. However, it can be produced from wide and varying range of sources and methods which are occurs in irregular intervals. Over the years, researchers have been finding different ways to produce hydrogen from natural resources to protect the environment from pollution. The idea of extracting hydrogen from alternative resources is marvelous because it is a process which would not harm the environment or further pollute it. Hence the incorporation of hydrogen fuels in the energy sectors in developed or developing countries are increasing largely. Work Cited: DAS, L.M. potential of hydrogen as an alternative fuel for the transport and power sector in International Journal of Environmental Studies, Vol. 64, No. 6, Routledge Taylor and Francis, December 2007, pp DOI: 10.1080/00207230701770418. Ahmed, Adeel, et al. fuel and transport system: A sustainable and environmental International Journal of Hydrogen Energy, Volume 41, Issue 3, 21 January 2016, pp Bidin, Noriah, et al. The effect of sunlight in hydrogen production from electrolysis International Journal of Hydrogen Energy, Vol 42, 1, Elsevier Ltd, Issue, 5 January 2017, Pages doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2016.11.203. Vandyshev, A. B. Kulikov, V.A. ENGINEERING, PRODUCTION AND USE OF INDUSTRIAL GASES, VACUUM Chemical and Petroleum Engineering, Vol 46, Nos. March, 2011 (Russian Original Nos. 2010). Al-Zareer , , Maan. Dincer, Ibrahim. A. Rosen, Marc. and assessment of a novel integrated nuclear plant for electricity and hydrogen Energy Conversion and Management, Volume 134, Elsevier Ltd, 15 February 2017, Pages doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.enconman.2016.12.004. Bae, Joongmyeon, et al. fuel processing for hydrogen production: A International Journal of Hydrogen Energy, Volume 41, Issue 44, Elsevier Ltd, 26 November 2016, Pages doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2016.08.135.