Barr 1 Mary Barr Bob Botkin ENC 1102 6 May 2017 Project 3: Composing Multimodal Arguments Selective attention is the psychology term that defines why humans only pay attention to select things in their environment that they deem important Is Selective This phenomenon is evidence to why people only place mental disorders on their radar when it affects them directly or someone close to them. Yet the unbearable truth is, 43.8 million American citizens are diagnosed with a mental health disorder; meaning 1 out of 8 people an individual comes across may possess a mental disorder Health By to the This dreadful statistic should alarm the American population enough to realize mental illness is not a rare condition, confined to the typical stereotype. Mental disorders have no type, they can affect people of every race, gender, economic status, and sexuality. One of the many significant problems in the world of mental health is the police lack of education on mental disorders. Ill detection of common signs of mental disorders has constructed a bridge between police officers and suspects with a mental disorder. This lack of communication on the issue has resulted in the prison system housing a majority of the mentally ill in America. Twenty percent of Americans in jail and fifteen percent of Americans in prison are diagnosed with having a mental illness, leaving 356,000 mentally ill people in the legal system (Swanson). The police job description is to always protect and serve his/her community, but a situation involving a person with a mental illness cannot be handled and deescalated with Barr 2 the same tactics that are commonly taught in the academy. More often than not, a person with a mental illness is arrested not for a suspected crime; but because they have been labeled as a danger and threat to people around them because they appear to be hostile and incomprehensible. The deficient knowledge on mental disorders will blind them in identifying that the person may have a mental illness and this is causing them to be unaware of their actions, scared or unable to process what is going on appropriately. The jail system in most situations will cause a symptoms to become worse because individuals are being denied services and not receiving treatment they need to help control their symptoms. The leading step in rectifying the outlandish number of those with a mental illness in jail and prison is to include mental health as a part of the academy training and to create laws/standards on how to proceed with situations involving the mentally ill. Mental Health America reports there are 200 forms of mental illness documented by psychologists and doctors. The most common disorders presented in America are: depression, anxiety, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, bipolar disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, schizophrenia, autism, and personality disorders. Depression is diagnosed when a person loses interest in old hobbies, lacks energy to do normal task and feels a sense of hopelessness for the future. These signs must be seen consistently for more than two weeks to be classified as depression. Anxiety disorders occur when the feeling of fear, worry, and anxiety becomes so overwhelming the day to day activities are interrupted. Anxiety disorders usually lead to panic attacks (Grohol, John). Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, also known as ADHD, is classified when a child has little interest, cannot stay focused for long periods of time, seems to be wandering off in their mind constantly and must be doing something with their hands to keep them still (Grohol, John). Post-traumatic stress disorder is commonly seen in Barr 3 soldiers, those who were raped and those who have witnessed an insane crime. Symptoms of the disease are constant flashbacks of the experience, avoiding any memory of the event, drastic change in routine and an increase of anger, fear and anxiety if they experience something that reminds them of the traumatic event. People who have bipolar disorder which is also called manic depression, are mostly identified by their irritable behavior, extensive mood changes and manic episodes. Schizophrenia is commonly noticed because the person experiences hallucinations and delusions, and are unable to tell the difference between them and reality (Grohol, John). Autism is a disorder that has a wide spectrum of disorders under its umbrella; people on the autism spectrum, usually have a difficult time communicating, do not look people in the eyes often, do not comprehend on the same pace as their peers, have sensory problems (touch), show a need for strict routine and do not recognize signals presented in body language (Grohol, John). is the persistent decline in a cognition and difficulty in making new memories. Personality disorders is one disorder that shows little trace in the adolescent years and is only diagnosed in majority cases until the person is in their twenties (Grohol, John). Like autism, personality disorders contain a spectrum that has different types on it, including antisocial personality disorder and narcissistic personality disorder. Among the disorders previously stated, people with bipolar, post-traumatic stress and personality disorder are the most likely out of all the disorders to have a run in with the police officers that leads them to jail About Mental Illness and The brain is one of the most complex entity discovered and researched on Earth, and still poses many questions with unfilled answers. Although the brain is an intricate piece of matter, there are various things that can affect its normal functioning, producing the presence of a mental disorder. Mental disorders can be commenced by biology, psychological trauma, environmental Barr 4 stressors, and genetics. When it comes to the human body, imbalances or abnormalities can be detrimental to the body functioning correctly. When blood cells are not the right size, such as sickled, muscles cannot receive the correct amount of oxygen and will not perform precisely; this small detail in the biology can skew functions dramatically. Like the blood cells, if there is an abnormal balance of neurotransmitters in the brain Causes Mental imbalance of chemicals in the body (epinephrine, serotonin and dopamine) or injury to the head, the brain will not perform at the expected intensity, resulting in a mental disorder. A little bit too much or a little less of something when we are cooking seems harmless and often goes unnoticed, but when it comes to the human body, the risk of these imbalances can be destructive. Although people try to stay on top of their bodies and go to the doctor for physicals, chemical imbalances can often go undetected, until the effects of the imbalance start to show. Corresponding to biology, genetics plays a big factor in mental disorders. When humans are conceived, they are passed down their traits through genes; this includes genetic markers that make them more susceptible to certain diseases. Bipolar disorder, depression, schizophrenia, autism, and are all common forms of mental disorders that can be closely caused by genetics. Scientist have proven that if a person suffers from bipolar disorder ninety percent of the time they have a family member that deals with depression. Compared to children who have a twenty percent chance of experiencing depression, if their mother had it a Parent Has a Mental Illness: HEREDITY & MENTAL Environmental stressors include any sudden change in a life that affects them deeply, such as a death in the family, school, moving homes or anything major happening on the social scale. The most prevalent example of this is seen in the adolescent population. A suburban father, Pete Earley, in his book describes the toll it took on him watching what he called, son just being a college Barr 5 kid and sprawling out of (Crazy A Search Through Mental Health Madness), turn into his son being arrested and diagnosed with bipolar disorder. This biography documents son story with his bipolar disorder, but mirrors the story of countless others. School, especially finals time, can take a toll on students, and the mixture of not eating right and the amount of stress is the perfect mix for a mental illness to brew. The last causation of a mental disorder is a traumatic event. Traumatic events are things that classify as physical, sexual, or emotional abuse or any event that can cause an extreme amount of fear and distress on a person. The most popular disorder to be diagnosed for a person who has been through a trauma is post- traumatic stress disorder. Mental illness does not only affect a certain demographic of Americans. The prevalence of mental disorders in America are sitting at very high numbers. The main facet to learn from information on mental disorders is that it may not affect a person currently but the odds that it could are high. The biology of our body, genetics, environmental stressors, and traumatic events are all things that cannot be completely controlled by a person, yet these are the known factors of mental disorders. The idea that someone is more likely to be jailed, over something they cannot control, puts a lot of humans and human rights at jeopardy. Barr 6 Works Cited About  National Alliance on Mental Illness, www.nami.org/About-NAMI. Accessed 11 Feb. 2017. Can gene editing be the missing piece in the battle against PhysicsForum Insight, www.physicsforums.com/insights/can-gene-editing-eliminate-alzheimers-disease/. Crazy A Search Through Mental Health Madness. Pete Earley, 2006. Pete Earley, www.peteearley.com/books/crazy/1st-chapter/. Accessed 24 Apr. 2017. An Exploratory Study of Pennsylvania Police Perceptions of Dangerousness and Their Ability to Manage Persons with Mental Illness. SageJournals, journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/1098611103258957. Accessed 1 Sept. 2004. Facts About Mental Illness and  Mental Health Reporting, edited by The School of Social Work, University of Washington, Accessed 11 Feb. 2017. Grohol, John. Symptoms & Treatments of Mental  PsychCentral, 2017, psychcentral.com/disorders/. Accessed 24 Apr. 2017. Jailing People with Mental  National Alliance on Mental Illness, www.nami.org/Learn- More/Public-Policy/Jailing-People-with-Mental-Illness. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Lamb, Richard, et al. The Police and Mental  The Police and Mental Health. Psychiatric Services, ps.psychiatryonline.org/doi/abs/10.1176/appi.ps.53.10.1266. Accessed 1 Oct. 2002. Mental Health By the  NAMI, www.nami.org/Learn-More/Mental-Health-By-the- Numbers. Barr 7 Mental Health  National Alliance on Mental Illness, www.nami.org/Learn- More/Mental-Health-Conditions. Accessed 11 Feb. 2017. Neurotransmitters, Depression and  Kellevision musings on meantal health by a licensed therapist, 6 May 2008, www.kellevision.com/kellevision/2008/05/neurotransmitte.html. Accessed 24 Apr. 2017. PBS, director. The New Asylums. PBS, 2005. PBS Frontline, PBS, www.pbs.org/wgbh/frontline/film/showsasylums/. Accessed 11 Feb. 2017. Seeing Narcissim in the Brain. Dr. Syras Derksen Registered Psychologist, www.drsyrasderksen.com/blog/seeing-narcissism-in-the- brain#sthash.IWnTRmsU.LF2tZ5eE.dpbs. Accessed 24 Apr. 2017. Steadman, Henry J., et al. Comparing Outcomes of Major Models of Police Responses to Mental Health  Psychiatric Services, 1 May 2000, ps.psychiatryonline.org/doi/abs/10.1176/appi.ps.51.5.645#/doi/full/10.1176/appi.ps.51.5. 645. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Swanson, Ana. A shocking number of mentally ill Americans end up in prison instead of  The Washington Post, 30 Apr. 2015, www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2015/04/30/a-shocking-number-of-mentally- ill-americans-end-up-in-prisons-instead-of-psychiatric- Accessed 11 Feb. 2017. Therapy Inside a Prison. 2005. PBS, www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/video/flv/generic.html?s=frol02s496q73&continuous =1. Barr 8 300 Tragedies that might have been prevented if New York State made better use of  Mental Illness Policy, mentalillnesspolicy.org/kendras- law/mentalillnesstragedynys.htm. Accessed 11 Feb. 2017. What Causes Mental  MedicineNet, Accessed 24 Apr. 2017. What Is Selective  verywell, edited by Kendra Cherry, 11 Apr. 2017, www.verywell.com/what-is-selective-attention-2795022. When a Parent Has a Mental Illness. www.mhaet.com/pdfs/heredity-mental-illness.pdf. Accessed 24 Apr. 2017.