Samaniego-Ames, 1 Adriana Samaniego-Ames Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 May 3, 2017 Physician Assisted Death The right to physician assisted suicide is a controversial topic that concerns people all over the United States. While some are against physician assisted death because of religious, moral, and ethical reasons, others are for it because of their compassion and respect for the dying patients. Not only patients but also physicians are divided on the issue. The main concern is where the line between dying and killing is being set. The main concern with assisted suicide lies with the ability of the terminally ill to decide on this issue. Many terminally ill patients who are in the final stages of their lives have requested doctors to help by performing euthanasia. It is sad to realize that these people are suffering and in great agony. That to them the only hope of bringing that pain to a stop is through assisted suicide. Physician-assisted suicide should be legalized because it offers terminally ill patients the right of choice and for a peaceful death. Many believe that physicians are simply helping patients kill themselves that are suffering from depression or mental issues. However, it is a long process to become eligible for physician assisted death. First, patients who consider assisted suicide must be a resident of California, District of Columbia, Oregon, Vermont, and Washington who has been diagnosed with a terminal illness that will, within reasonable medical judgment, lead to death within six months (How to Access and Use Death with Dignity Laws). They must also be aware of their exact medical condition through a mutual exchange of information with their doctor and must be 18 years or older. Second, these patients understand their medical treatment along with risk, Samaniego-Ames, 2 benefits and other options. Third, they must talk with a psychologist to determine if they are psychologically able to make such a decision with Laws by State). Another requirement for this to happen is that the patient must be able to ingest the own medicine and two physicians must determine if you meet all the criteria. Therefore, terminally ill patients who finally choose to ask for a help for a peaceful death that are mentally competent and very determined about what they want to choose. According to a story published on the Death with Dignity website, seven out of ten Americans are in favor of physician assisted death (Stories). Many people who are part of this movement, join because of their own personal experience on this issue. want to ensure other families do not go through the same thing they have gone through. What can we do if we care about death with dignity and peace? Tell the stories of our loved ones who die with more suffering than they should; listen to the voices of others who eloquently spoke of their suffering and desire to die with this quote is by Jason Barber, it perfectly describes how each family is feeling towards experience this situation. It is very important to understand that every person has a right to make decisions about their own life (Stories). This right is supported in the Constitution of the United States of America, Amendment 14 states: persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the state wherein they reside. No state shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any state deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the (Staff, LII). The constitution is stating that every person is allowed free will therefore the right for a terminally ill patient to ask a physician for assisted suicide to have a peaceful death should be legal. Samaniego-Ames, 3 It has also been argued that by legalizing physician assisted suicide would corrupt the practice of medicine. According to Should Terminally Ill Patients Be Allowed to Die on Their Own , the legalization of this law may violate the principle that doctors should devote themselves to save lives and offer them the best medical treatment they can receive (Gonchar, Michael). However, the doctor community does strive to offer each patient that best care possible but sometimes it is not enough to stop the constant suffering for terminally ill patients. The importance of passing a law for physician assisted suicide is that by implementing a law terminally ill patients will have an option to end their suffering if there is no more options left. Many Americans do not have the funds for proper access to long term care of a chronic illness. It costs around $30-$60 for the lethal injection, which is nothing compared to the treatment of a terminally ill patient. It should be a responsibility to help terminally ill patients achieve a calm and peaceful death because that is one of the best treatments for these terminally ill patients. Physician assisted suicide should be legalized in all states because it allows the end of suffering for terminally ill patients and their families who must watch them go through all the pain. Also, the patient would be receiving the best care they could get before finding out if they are eligible for the physician assisted death. It also allows the physicians to be able to give their patients all the options possible for them. Legalizing assisted death would improve the medical environment each terminally ill patient is in at that moment and make the lives more meaningful while having the choice of a peaceful death. It is time to do something to help patients with terminally ill diseases to end their lives in peace. Donate to organizations like Death with Dignity, to support and inform yourself about what is happening in your state about this topic. Samaniego-Ames, 4 Works Cited Medical Definition of Physician-assisted  MedicineNet. MedecineNet, n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <http://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=32841>.  Death With Dignity. Death With Dignity, n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <https://www.deathwithdignity.org/stories/>. With Laws by  Findlaw. Thomson Reuters, n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <http://healthcare.findlaw.com/patient-rights/death-with-dignity-laws-by-state.html>. How to Access and Use Death with Dignity  Death With Dignity. Death With Dignity, n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <https://www.deathwithdignity.org/learn/access/>. Staff, LII. 14th  LII / Legal Information Institute. N.p., 12 Nov. 2009. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <https://www.law.cornell.edu/constitution/amendmentxiv>. Gonchar, Michael. Should Terminally Ill Patients Be Allowed to Die on Their Own  The New York Times. The New York Times, 20 Feb. 2014. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <https://learning.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/02/20/should-terminally-ill-patients-be- allowed-to-die-on-their-own-terms/>.