AL-KHALDI 1 Mansoor Al-Khaldi Meredith Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 Date Impact of Online Booking on Travel and Tourism In our busy world, the use of the Internet has become an important part of each daily-life. People are used to ordering food online, chatting with their friends and family in social networks, resolve working issues via Skype, and booking a vacation online. Therefore, it has become extremely hard for traditional travel agencies to compete with online websites since the websites often provide better service at higher speed and less cost. Nevertheless, such competition usually leads in improving service quality and brings benefits for the customers. This paper will compare traditional travel agents with travel websites and explore the behavior of online bookings for tourism purposes. The great advantage of a traditional tour operator is that the customer can visit the office. In order to get an advice from a personal manager, get a professional advice in regards to which location it is better to visit and get overexcited by wonderful pictures of tourist destinations printed by operators. Nevertheless, such model has become outdated with the popularity of the Internet. As a result, the demand for tour services decreased significantly. As the travel websites can perform any task of a traditional travel agency online including providing those attractive destination pictures: interactive tours, for instance, might be used to convey a clear impression of the travel destination and interactive on-demand AL-KHALDI 2 videos may be shown online without interfering with other (in-store) (Bogdanovych, 2006, p. 419). According to Trekksoft Travel Trend Report 2017, Traditional tour services have decreased significantly. Customers prefer booking domestic trips online, while they still express the need to come to the tour office to book a trip abroad, especially to an orthodox country. Organization of the vacation abroad requires expertise in some cases, access to various databases with hotels, air carriers, excursion guides, etc. Sometimes the travelers might need to get a visa, so the majority of tourists would prefer to order it from a travel agency in order to save time and worry about it. Young and middle-age customers prefer to look up the places online and book a hotel on their own as it will save their budget and help to plan the trip based on their needs. This is the difference between the approaches of old clients and young clients. With the passage of time, society is evolving. Another comparison that shows the superiority of internet booking on traditional way of booking is time management. If we compare traditional booking to online booking see that for a person, it is easy to book services online rather than going personally to a travel agent, it is clearly time saving. Evangelos Christou in his book Media in Travel, Tourism and clearly defines the new and fast way of planning a trip with all information without spending extra time. In world, everyone use social media and social media like Facebook, twitter, Instagram are now selling ads for their users so that users can get all the information out of their daily routine life while using social media. Further, booking and information of any sort is just a click away (Christou, 2016). So, some people prefer to go to a travel agent for their satisfaction, but others will definitely opt the online booking service. AL-KHALDI 3 Direct expansion of business and indirect expansion of business both are possible with the help of internet. Hotels and tourism management companies are interacting with customers directly or through a third party (like in the case of social media as explained above). The customer and hotels both are getting benefits. Customer gets to decide that where he/she wants to stay plus they can view the hotel before booking. The reach of hotels in the age of internet is more than the old-time hotels. They can digitally advertise their business. Statistics shows that by the years 1999 to 2008, hotels with online booking get more revenue than the traditional hotels. Now there are even E-Management strategies to attract clients (Crnojevac, 2010, p. 41- 54). Traditional companies are better for people with no access to internet, on the other hand people with access of internet will go for online booking. Anyone who wanted to go on a trip or book a hotel have to go through a messy traditional process of booking. With the arrival of internet to common people and online booking and tourism spot detection services people now has a standard algorithm consisted of 6 basic steps from browsing the website of host company to purchasing the ticket online. This algorithm is flawless and tourists can estimate all the cost in advance (Molchanova, 2014, p. 75-79). With estimation of cost in advance, online booking provides an opportunity to customers to plan other things for their trips too. Traditional booking was a onetime interaction of booker and the customer, with online booking customers can keep themselves in touch with their favorite tourist company for a long time. Research shows that there is a pattern in behavior of tourists and customers who use online booking for reservations in hotels (Peng, 2013, p. 280-85). We can say that traditional booking services are short term and online booking services has a long term impact on customers. AL-KHALDI 4 User generated content on or behavior. In other words, a data base of generated data consisted of reviews by different customers based on the experiences they had with the product or in this case with the hotel or tourism company. Conventional ways of hoteling and tourism offer a review form to customers but online system records a pattern and later a review by customer (Ye, 2011, p. 634-39). This review helps in improving the quality for the next experience. Online booking is getting improved day by day because of these reviewers. Comparing both the options for travelers, looks like the online booking system has its on charms and seems more up to date with modern world. Some people still rely on traditional way of traveling because of their own reasons. All in all, online websites and travel agencies still continue to compete in the travel market and increase the quality of services. The customers will ultimately benefit from such competition and each traveler will be able to select the best option based on their needs. AL-KHALDI 5 Work Cited Bogdanovych, Anton, Helmut Berger, Simeon Simoff, and Carles Sierra. Travel agents vs. online booking: tackling the shortcomings of nowadays online tourism  Information and Communication Technologies in Tourism 2006 (n.d.): 418-28. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. <http://195.130.87.21:8080/dspace/bitstream/123456789/779/1/Travel%20agents%20vs .%20online%20booking.pdf>. Christou, Evangelos, Marianna Sigala, and Professor Dimitri. Ioannides. Social media in travel, tourism and hospitality theory, practice and cases. Farnham: Taylor and Francis, 2016. Print. Crnojevac, I. H., J. and S. ETourism: a comparison of online and offline bookings and the importance of hotel  JIOS 34.1 (2010): 41-54. 10 Mar. 2010. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. <http://hrcak.srce.hr/file/83901>. Molchanova, V. S. The use of online service booking in tourist  European Journal of Social and Human Sciences 2.2 (2014): 75-79. Web. 25 Mar. 2017. <http://www.aphr.ru/images/books/pdf/european-journal-of-social-and-human- science.pdf>. Peng, H., X. Xu, and W. Chen. Tourist behaviors in online booking: a new research  Communications in Information Science and Management Engineering 3.6 (2013): 280- 85. Print. Ye, Qiang, Rob Law, Bin Gu, and Wei Chen. The influence of user-generated content on traveler behavior: An empirical investigation on the effects of e-word-of-mouth to hotel online  Computers in Human Behavior 27.2 (2011): 634-39. Web. 26 Mar. AL-KHALDI 6 2017. VT: Ashgate Pub, 2012. Print.