Maurevensly Jeudy Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 4/2/2017 The American judicial system was built on the concept of equity, accountability, and integrity. Most importantly, the American judicial system, inspired by the Constitution, is said to condemn racial discrimination. While that may very well be the case, current disciplinary trends show otherwise. Minorities, condemned by a racially biased judicial system, are more than often subject to an unfair trial. The judicial system in the United States is a serious and complex matter. With the highest incarceration rate and its governing majority rule system, the United States of America condemns one in nine prisoners to life sentences. Low income minorities thus excessively bear the brunt of these disciplinary measures. Very often without the means to obtain a truly fair trial, minorities are subject to discrimination in court and injustice. A fair trial consists of the following elements: 1. Independent court 2. Public Trial 3. Presumption of innocence 4. Defendant told of charge 5. Time and facilities to prepare 6. Trial without undue delay 7. Right to a lawyer 8. Right to examine witness 9. Right to an interpreter 10. Right to not testify against oneself 11. No double jeopardy (Manager 2015) First, most low income minorities do not have the means to hire a good lawyer who will protect their rights. They are very often left with a lawyer that is provided to them by the court and who very often serve them no real purpose. Secondly, for minorities to have a fair trials they should be deemed innocent until proven guilty. The truth is prosecutors do not always abide by that value of the court. According to a recent study conducted at the University of Hawaii, people automatically associate blackness with and whiteness with By immediately associating guilt with a black face, prosecutors and jurors alike are more likely to pursue a prosecution when an individual is charged with a crime and/or felony. Minorities - blacks and Hispanics - as a reaction to the injustice brought to them have nurtured a culture of resistance against police work, thus perpetuating the injustice cycle. Witnesses do not speak against or for the accused, thus further impeding the fair nature of a trial. Extreme criminalization has left millions attempting to remain above water against the iron block of a criminal record. Over the years, nothing has changed. Maxwell, a criminal justice scholar writes about various cases of failed African Americans in the American judicial system. His work showed us that from the beginning the system has failed African Americans, minorities in general. The connection models in his work demonstrated minorities were dealt with all the more correctional compared to Caucasians, they were also accused of an attack, theft, or murder, the same exact felonies , yet they were dealt with all the more mercifully when they were accused of a rape. Informative models that represented the differential handling of minorities that were lopsidedly merciful or corrective, contingent upon the unlawful acts are examined. Being something other than caucasian automatically stacks us chance of being wrongfully convicted, the system is failing us, the constitution itself. In that failing system, the jury plays a big role.The purpose of the jury is to weigh up the evidence given and to choose what the genuine truths of the case are or what really happened. The judge gives the course to the jury on the important law, which the jury needs to apply to the realities of the case with a specific end goal to achieve a decision. On the off chance that it is a criminal case and the jury has given a decision of guilty, then the judge will settle on proper sentence. One might say that one aspect that many fail to understand is that jurors go through a series of questions where their answers will allow the court to decide whether they are fit to be part of the jury, therefore not giving a chance to those that hold racial biases to have a say in life. There are also sentencing laws that are established in order to make sure that those that commit the crime pay the price. Laws such as the federal crack cocaine sentencing law where mandatory minimum sentence. However how come there are more African americans that in jail for drugs and how can one truly depict those that hold racial biases if we all hold them ourselves? They decide whether one is guilty or not. However, if the media,that influences or in a way represents the people, shows the racial stereotypes that depicts African- Americans as more violent, we get an unfair, bias trial from the start? Pauline work shows us how minorities are viewed in big media sites such as New York Times. Her findings portrayed discoveries from the Race Implicit Association Test. The test displayed high contrast confronts on a PC screen, alongside words, for example,    and  to give some examples. Respondents were made a request to connection such words to either a white or a dark face. Gladwell (2005) detailed that more than 80 percent of every one of the individuals who have ever taken the test wind up having pro white  and that about a large portion of the African-Americans tried likewise made more pro white associations than pro black affiliations . He went ahead to clarify that the outcomes were not astounding in light of the fact that whites are matched with great things in media outlets, for example, daily papers and TV. How can one say after this that minorities condemned to unfair trials when majority of the people hold negative stereotypes? Furthermore, according to Mike essay, where he talks about the jury. The legitimacy of this supposition has been addressed for cases including racial minority individuals, in that racial inclination among jury individuals may impact jury choices.Experts appointed to the part of barrier legal counselor for a Black defendant will probably avoid legal hearers with abnormal amounts of understood race predisposition, though prosecutors of a Black litigant did the inverse. There was no connection between authoritative difficulties and legal levels of unequivocal race inclination. Therefore the part that racial predisposition play in legal decisions are examined and questioned like they should be. In light of the observational information, African Americans will probably be captured for specific violations, and the relating probability that, once captured, they will probably be arraigned, Zane Umsted advocates for an institutional protection to face this hazardous issue that torment the requirement of all felonies. Action must be taken against a system that never seems to change even though we seem to think so, the media just finds a way to make more subtle, but the major issue is still there, a judicial system deeply affected by stereotypes that disable minorities from having a fair trial. The question that remains is what do they get from all of this? in it for them? These series of questions led me to one conclusion, they are profiting from putting minorities in prison. notable that ethnic minorities are overrepresented in detainment facilities in respect to their share of the populace. Yet, a current review finds that they make up a considerably bigger share of the populaces of private, revenue driven detainment facilities than openly run organizations. The private jail industry has gone under feedback for burning through millions campaigning for cruel sentences that would put more individuals in prison. Gets that require least occupancy rates and drive states to pay for unused beds, which at the end causes the judges to give out longer sentence in order to keep the state from paying for the unused bed, putting a price tag on our lives. that just new form of slavery? References http://www.npr.org/sections/codeswitch/2014/03/13/289000532/why-for-profit-prisons-house- more-inmates-of-color http://famm.org/projects/federal/us-congress/crack-cocaine-mandatory-minimum-sentences/ Umsted, Zane A. Deterring Racial Bias In Criminal Justice Through  Iowa Law Review 100.1 (2014): 431-453. https://www.alrc.gov.au/publications/attributes-fair-trial Morrison, Mike, Amanda DeVaul-Fetters, and Bertram Gawronski. Stacking The Jury: Legal Peremptory Challenges Reflect Levels Of Implicit Race  Personality & Social Psychology Bulletin 42.8 (2016) https://manoa.hawaii.edu/kaunana/can-black-defendants-creceive-a-fair-trial-in-the-federal- justice-system/ Maxwell, Christopher D, et al. The Impact of Race on the Adjudication of Sexual Assault and Other Violent  Journal of Criminal Justice, vol. 31, 01 Jan. 2003, pp. 523-538. Brennan, Pauline K.1, and Abby L.1 Valdenberg. Depictions Of Female Offenders In Front- Page Newspaper Stories: The Importance Of  International Journal Of Social Inquiry 2.2 (2009): 141-175. https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/fact-checker/wp/2015/07/07/yes-u-s-locks-people-up-at- https://thinkprogress.org/one-in-nine-u-s-prisoners-are-serving-life-sentences-report-finds- 56580fef5707. https://manoa.hawaii.edu/kaunana/can-black-defendants-creceive-a-fair-trial-in-the-federal- justice-system/