Tanzila Tasnim Professor Sabah Uddin English Composition 7 th May 2017 The Importance of Smartphones for Children As the times progress, it brings with it new technologies to make life easier than ever before. Technologies have led to innovations that used to seem unrealistic even just a few years ago, such as smartphones. When the first form of telecommunication was invented in 1876, the telephone was a big, bulky, wired machine that people could not carry anywhere. Throughout the years, the methods, as well as the devices used for telecommunication have changed drastically. In recent years there are smartphones in hands, whether it is a college student, fifth grader, or a five year old. Not only can people carry their smartphones everywhere, it also minimizes the amount of things a person has to carry. Almost every smartphone is equipped with numerous apps that allow them to function as a camera, phonebook, calculator, clock, music player, gaming device and various other devices. However, with all the new functions that can be performed with a smartphone, it also leads to new worries among the parents on whether it is a good idea to introduce children to smartphone at an early age. The goal of this paper is to not only highlight the importance of introducing children to smartphones but to also explain why it is a necessary step that needs to be taken in order to make sure that the future generation is fully prepared. Technologies such as laptops, tablets and smartphones are replacing pen and paper at an incredibly fast rate. In an article written by Anne Chemin called vs Typing: is the Tasnim 2 Pen still Mightier than the she talks about a survey taken by two thousand people to analyze how much handwriting has declined. The result of the survey showed that on an average, people had not used pen and paper in the previous 41 days, which gives the readers an idea of the rate at which technologies are developing and taking over the day to day necessities such as pen and paper. In order to prepare the future generation, it is necessary for them to be familiarized with smartphones, which is the most basic and user-friendly way to use technology at the moment. This will make it easier for them to adapt quickly to the various advanced technologies to come in the near future. In the study and Interactive Media Use by Young Children: The Good, the Bad, and the done by Jenny S. Radesky, one of her goals is to figure out how children of different age interact with media and technology. In her research, she reached the conclusion that children, above thirty months old, learn from education based interactive television shows while children younger than thirty months are more likely to learn through tangible interactive media. According to the article, well- researched television programs such as Sesame Street or Clues can promote early academic skills in preschool- aged children, children <30 months old cannot learn from television and videos as they do from real- life (Radesky, p1). As mentioned above, children younger than thirty months old learn better with tangible interactive media, which although television fails to provide currently but smartphones do not. There are new interactive educational apps being introduced by Imagicademy which will keep them busy by helping them learn new things everyday. But it can also be argued that children can sometimes be distracted by some of the features of the app such as sound Tasnim 3 effects and animation. To counter argue that point, these apps are helping to make learning fun for children at an early age, while also introducing them to smartphones and how to use it properly. In the study Tablet Computers to teach Preschool Children to write letters: Exploring the Impact of Extrinsic and Intrinsic a study was done between first to second grade students and fourth to ninth grade students, but researchers such as Melissa M. Patchan were more interested on the impact on the handwriting when they replaced pen and paper with tablets and stylus. Their research showed that the students with the tablet and stylus had the same results as the children with pen and paper which gives the readers further proof of the rate of technological advancement. With tablets and styluses comes the opportunity for children with learning disabilities to improve their writings and comprehension with in the matter of a few weeks, an improvement that came after the introduction of smartphones. With all the positive sides to introducing children to smartphones, there is also the fear of introducing internet to children in the process of introducing them to smartphones. Although internet is an excellent place and the fastest way to find information, it can also lead to being misinformed if not careful of where to look. Also with children there is always the fear that they will accidentally stumble on something over the internet that they were not meant to see in the first place. A study called Effects of Media on Children and states that and adolescents learn by observing and imitating what they see on the screen, particularly when these behaviours seem realistic or are which means that most of the Tasnim 4 things children see, they imitate. This is not a problem if what they are imitating is a good habit but if they are not, parents have a hard time getting their children to lay off that habit. (Strasburger, p3). But with a little cooperation and daily monitoring from the parents along with parental control softwares, this issue can be handled as well. The next generation has a bright future ahead of them, one that is filled with endless possibilities and the most advanced technology than any other generations. It is a generation of people who will be surrounded with all kinds of technology to make life easier and in order for them to be more prepared, they need to be introduced to the various technologies around us now. One of the best ways to familiarize them with these technologies at a young age is through a smartphone. A smartphone is equipped with most of the daily necessities and more for humans with built in clock, phonebook, camera, calendar, games, notepad, music player at the very least. And if guided properly and taught the basic negatives of the internet from an early age, the children will have better knowledge about the internet as well, thus making them less likely to make bad choices over the internet. Also for the ages when the children cannot understand the difference between right and wrong, there are parental monitor softwares that will help the parents keep track of the visited sites and block others. Works Cited Barnes, Brooks. to Introduce New Apps Focused on The New York Times, The New York Times Company, 2014, United States. Chemin, Anne. Handwriting vs Typing: Is the Pen Still Mightier than the Keyboard? The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 16 Dec. 2014. Web. Patchan, Melissa M. Puranik, Cynthia S. tablet computers to teach preschool children to write letters: Exploring the Impact of Extrinsic and Intrinsic Computers & Education, ScienceDirect, 2016, United States. Radesky, Jenny S. Schumacher, Jayna. Zuckerman, Barry. and Interactive Media Use by Young Children: The Good, the Bad, and the American Academy of Pediatrics, 2014, United States. Strasburger, Victor C. Jordan, Amy B. Donnerstein, Ed. Effect of Media on Children and US: American Academy of Pediatrics, 2009, United States.