Alharbi 1 Tahani Alharbi John Williams ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Animal Cruelty The issue of animal abuse for entertainment and other unethical purposes is a big problem for the whole world. The gaiety industry is one of the most profitable in all the countries. Regardless of the amount of generated profit, the animals used to entertain the public do not receive the necessary care and live in bad conditions. Zoos and circus are the place where animals face the biggest maltreatment. During the circus shows, the animals share entertaining acts that take years of trainings to achieve (Shani and Pizam 684). The same principle is used in zoos also by limiting the animals to an enclosed area for the entire life for the only one purpose which is entertaining humans. Most of animals exposed to very bad conditions. Some of them are lions, tigers, snakes, elephants, alligators, crocodiles, birds, and even insects. As a result of this unpleasant practice, every person who respects the environment must stand against this culture of abuse. Although zoos and circuses are rooted in a human culture, the negative effect they have on the environment and the life of species are fundamental for the elimination of unpleasant practices. The animals live in captivity in return for the meals. Being wild by their nature, animals face extreme cases of training by human beings for their entertainment value. Sometimes animals show their true nature through of attacks on their trainers, but these incidents barely register. The wild animals deserve to be in the wild environment instead of caged existence in zoos and circus shows. The difference between a lion in the Serengeti and a lion in Alharbi 2 the New York zoo is obvious even to the unobservant person due to the social impact. The caged animals undergo regular training that leads to abandoning its wild instincts in favor of the domestic or tamed demeanor (Mason 718). Animals have minimum chances of surviving if reintroduced back into the wild courtesy of its conditioning (Shani and Pizam 684). In essence, the practice of training wild animals is relative to driving those species to extinction through ignorance. The animals kept in the zoo develop new characters and identities as desired by their masters or owners. The new characteristics are not necessarily important to their survival in the wild. For example, animals will fail to adapt to the cruelty of life in the jungle or their natural habitat since they used to grow in environment that is surrounded by humans. The reduction of the natural numbers of animals in the wild is a crime against the environment that will threaten the existence of certain species. In the end, the planet will have domesticated wild animals that cannot contribute to the environment circle that allows for continuity of the species. This state will result in the extinction of those animals and it will threaten the existence of human beings through the destruction of the environment. The primary purpose of keeping those animals in cages is to generate profit from public visitation among other activities. However, the revenues gained from the activities do not go back into protecting other animals (Beirne). The owners of the zoos and circuses are the ones who get the profit, while the environment suffers from the human activity. Thus, animals are relative to slaves who have to perform their bidding in return for food and a place to sleep. These conditions of slavery do not add any value to the environmental system. According to this statement, the treatment of animals in some circumstances conflicts everything that People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) stands for. Therefore, it needs to find a solution to Alharbi 3 the issue. All efforts by PETA should focus on eliminating the unpleasant culture from the society by discouraging the consumers from the unpleasant services. Since the practice is a commercial success, any efforts to shut down those companies will not be succeed because they already have abroad market. Therefore, the best approach to change the practices and preferences of the population is taking away the demand for the unpleasant services and make them not profitable. PETA focuses on rights against abuse or maltreatment in the name of entertainment. The animals in zoos and circuses face the ultimate form of cruelty that society may accept. The most credible approach towards reducing the practices is through legislation prohibiting the use of animals for commercial purposes without contributing to the conservation of the environment. PETA should make regulatory conditions that impose social responsibility on the zoos and the circuses, which is a short-term objective. The long-term goal should focus on elimination of the practices in favor of more freedom to the animals and respect the natural order of the environment. The long-term goals should involve stiff penalties for the practice of this unpleasant culture and prohibit it completely (Francione and Garner 123). Zoos and circus shows are a part of human culture but it is an evil practice for the environment. Beside the efforts that made in protecting the environment from pollution and other practices, the same efforts should be used to protect animals because animals are a part of the environment. Despite the dependence of the human culture on zoos and circus shows, the disadvantages to the environment is more than the profit that comes from such activities. While changing the culture might be difficult, the process should be organized by accomplishing short- term goals as previously mentioned in this paper. The short-term goals will make the foundation for the future by eliminating the unpleasant practices. Limiting the licensing of some Alharbi 4 establishments and make the laws to discourage unpleasant practices might stop unpleasant future actions. In the future, the law should eliminate the practices with little or no resistance due to the influence of the short-term goal. In order to reduce the dependence on zoos and circuses, PETA should issue the necessary resources make useful actions against these practices by selfish organizations that only care about profits. Alharbi 5 Work Cited Beirne, Piers. Animal Rights, Animal Abuse and Green  Issues in Green Criminology, 2007, 55-83. Francione, Gary Lawrence, and Robert Garner. Animal Rights Debate: Abolition or University Press, 2010. Mason, Georgia J. Species Differences in Responses to Captivity: Stress, Welfare and the Comparative  Trends in Ecology & Evolution, vol. 25, no. 12, 2010, 713-721. Shani, Amir, and Abraham Pizam. Towards An Ethical Framework for Animal-Based  International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality Management, vol. 20, no. 6, 2008, 679-693.