Marijuana Legalization Beneficial to the U.S. Economy By Ryan Casey How it can be beneficial? - Marijuana is a billion dollar industry if it was federally legal - Millions of dollars in legal tax revenue - A major cash crop the country could export - It has legitimate medical uses - It would create many jobs Hemp - Hemp is the part of a marijuana plant not used for the drug bt can be used for other things, however the U.S. government fails to recognize the difference between this part of the plant and the drug part making both illegal. - Hemp can be used for thousands of things from replacing the lead in paint, cotton in textile, trees for paper, and thousands of other renewable resources. - It can also be used for organic uses such as health foods and body care products. - Hemp is a billion dollar industry that is outlawed because the flower that grows on the same plant is illegal - Hemp uses half the amount of water wheat uses to grow and produces four times as much income. Replacing Tobacco and Alcohol? - Thousands of people die every year just from consuming too much alcohol, NOT ONE person has ever died from smoking too much marijuana. - If it were legal marijuana could be a better substitute to tobacco and alcohol - Like vape pens, legalizing marijuana would help decrease the amount of tobacco products used in the U.S. - It would also give big tobacco another focus. Crime Rate - Millions of tax dollars are wasted on trying to fight crime against marijuana. - Legalizing it would allow the police to focus on more violent crimes - The amount of time and money to put someone in jail for possession of marijuana would save millions - Legalizing marijuana would help law enforcement because it would damage the and many other illegal drug operations in the U.S. - Crime rates in other countries went down when the drug was legalized - Keeping it illegal will only help fund operations like the Why it is still illegal 1. The prohibition is based off lies misinformation and racism 2. One of the main reasons marijuana is still illegal is because prison systems pay politicians to keep it illegal so they can keep their prisons filled and keep getting funds from the government. 3. If prisons do not meet their inmate quota they are fined hundreds of thousands of dollars. 4. Medically legal marijuana has many uses and already has a huge market which has already begun to damage pharmacy revenue, for this reason these companies are pushing hard to keep it illegal. Why Some Feel It Should Stay Illegal? - Some people say that if weed is legalized people, especially teens and children will be exposed to it more and we will see increase in troubled teens from it. - However, making the drug legal would make it regulated and therefore harder for underage people to get it. - While it is illegal it will have no price control or regulation which means your teen could be getting something else very dangerous to their health without even knowing it. Work Cited - Sartor, Carolyn E., et al. Perceived Safety and Controllability of Events: Markers of Risk for Marijuana Use in Young  Addictive Behaviors, vol. 66, Mar. 2017, pp. 114-117. - Pearson, Matthew R., et al. College Student Marijuana Involvement: Perceptions, Use, and Consequences across 11 College  Addictive Behaviors, vol. 66, Mar. 2017, - Lankenau, Stephen E., et al. Marijuana Practices and Patterns of Use among Young Adult Medical Marijuana Patients and Non-Patient Marijuana  Drug and Alcohol Dependence, vol. 170, 01 Jan. 2017, pp. 181-188.