de Kort 1 Ashley de Kort Bob Botkin ENC 1102.099 30 April 2017 The Space Race The United States and Russia have been rivals as early as 1947 when the Cold War began. At first, both countries were enemies as they competed against each other to complete space innovations before one another. After working together on a joint experiment, both countries settled down and began working together in the International Space Station. Now, the U.S. relies on Russia to send their astronauts into space since the space shuttle program is no longer being supported. Without the space shuttle program, many space innovations would not have happened. This paper will demonstrate the importance of the space shuttle program and the benefits it brings. Both Russia and the U.S. are known for their great achievements to the space industry. The rivalry, also known as the began when the Soviet Union launched the first satellite into space, beating the United States (Musa). At this point, the United States had yet to accomplish sending an object into space. This was a great achievement for Russia as the United States was known as one of the most advanced and the strongest nation at that time. Both countries then began focusing on sending humans to space. The competition began to intensify as Russia prepared to send the first woman, Valentina Tereshkova, and man, Yuri Gagarin, into space while the United States was sending the first man, Neil Armstrong, to the moon (Musa). After continuous trial and errors from both countries, Musa, a graduate student at Middlebury Institute of International Studies, explained that both countries began working on a joint de Kort 2 experiment which combined both the Apollo and Soyuz projects which created the first U.S.- Soviet space flight. Because of this, Russia and the U.S. began to get on better terms, temporarily ending the There are several reasons as to why the United States had to give up the space shuttle program and begin relying on Russia for space travel. One reason, according to Jeffrey Kluger, costs $400 million every time they fly, take months to prep for a mission and have a devastatingly poor safety Because of its costly preparation, Congress has stopped funding the space shuttle program which ended in August 31, 2011 (Pearlman). Another reason of the funding being cut is because of the several explosions and poor safety records such as Challenger as it exploded shortly after launching(Dowd). Many believe sending human beings into space is dangerous and not worth the risk. Yet, many fail to realize the benefits of having the space shuttle program. Some of these benefits include water purification, better software, and food safety systems. NASA engineers are looking to develop complex systems where wastewater from respiration, urine, and sweat will be turned into drinkable water (Spinoff 1995,2006). This can help astronauts who are traveling and with these complex systems it could bring the possibility of providing drinkable water to those in rural countries. Technology is also quickly advancing as the years go by. NASA and Google Inc. have collaborated to make a scattered, vast ocean of data that is more accessible and usable around the world (Spinoff 2005). There will be an advancement in photo enhancement, virtual-reality, simulation training and medical applications (Spinoff 2005). This innovation can lead to better communication between countries and to develop advanced medical equipment to use in the future. A major concern for astronauts is the food they will eat and if it is safe to eat when not on land. two main concerns are the crumbs contaminating the atmosphere and sensitive instruments and preventing de Kort 3 disease-producing bacteria and toxins (Spinoff 1991). After realizing this, NASA has taken many precautions on how to contain food in the space shuttle. An example of how containing and transferring food has evolved is the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) concept which prevents food safety problems (Spinoff 1991). The concept has been used for handling seafood, juices, and dairy products (Spinoff 1991). All these improvements will help advance technology in different ways. Astronauts have been able to experience a different environment than on land and having human space flights will be able to bring information to people on Earth about things beyond earth. With the space shuttle program, humans will also be able to orbit can also lead to discoveries of other planets and their environments compared to has recently been discussed by NASA researchers as more information about other planets are arising. NASA has recently been pushing for the idea of starting the space shuttle program once again. President Trump has recently signed a bill which authorizes increasing the current year budget to $19.5 billion to focus on human space flight (Miller). Regardless of starting the space shuttle program again, the United States will have to maintain a solid relationship with Russia as both countries will be working together in the International Space Station. Currently, Russia and the U.S. are not on the best of terms because of President decision on launching a military strike against Syria because of the latest chemical attack. Russia is an ally with Syria in which Russia has important military facilities at and it would be risky if Assad, the President of Syria, was removed from power(themagnews.com). Because of President decision, Russia has currently stopped coordinating with the U.S. which prevents midair incidents (themagnews.com). Currently, the only stable relationship between the two de Kort 4 countries is working together in the space industry. If this relationship were to be corrupted, there would no longer be a cohesive space industry relationship between both countries. It is critical that people are aware of the current situations going on between the several countries involved as the decisions made will be made accordingly to the current situations and relationships. It is also important for individuals to be aware of the benefits brought through having the space shuttle program. If the public is not aware of the benefits of having the space shuttle program, then there will be no support towards the program. Having the space shuttle program will benefit both countries as the U.S. will be able to work on having their own spacecraft, which has not happened in a few years, and sending astronauts back up in space on their own land while Russia will be able to focus on the International Space Station and advancing their countries space innovations to keep expanding their space industry. To help support the space shuttle program, one can write to Congress expressing the concern of no longer funding the program and how it can negatively affect the future. People can also join the Planetary Society, a non-profit organization where members will be able to donate and receive constant news of the newest discoveries and all news related to the space industry. Bill Nye, the CEO of the society, has brought many people together where there is one goal, to improve the space industry and support it regardless of Congress cutting funds. The space industry is constantly changing and rapidly advancing as new technology is advancing. Despite their rivalry, Russia and the United States have made several new discoveries together. Because of their work, one can learn how the Earth is changing and how certain circumstances are impacting it. Mars has recently been an area of interest. With the space shuttle program, astronauts will be able to have the opportunity to travel to the planet and gather data to bring back to Earth. The data gathered can bring forth unknown information which can greatly de Kort 5 impact individuals around the world and the environment. The U.S. is currently at a standstill but will hopefully be able to make new great discoveries as more people become aware of the opportunities the space program could bring. Without the space shuttle program, many discoveries will not be made. Russia and the United States have discovered many things since working together and many hope the relationship will continue to get better in order to pursue what is best for the Earth. de Kort 6 Works Cited Dowd, and Alan W. Surrendering Outer  Policy Review 1 Aug. 2009: n. pag. Print. Editor, Robert Z. Pearlman collectSPACE.com. Space Shuttle Program Officially Ends After Final  Space.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 07 Apr. 2017. Miller, S.A. Trump renews NASA mission for human space travel, deep space  The Washington Times. The Washington Times, 21 Mar. 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Musa, Anthony. Russia and America: Crisis on the planet, friendship in  Russia Direct. N.p., 01 Nov. 2016. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. NASA Technologies Benefit Our  NASA. NASA, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.