LI 1 Haoxuan Li Ashely Tisdale Composition l 21 March, 2017 Culture Shock and Adaptation Nowadays, more and more people choose to study abroad. As a result, culture shock moves to the forefront of the mind. Culture shock is defined as the feeling of disorientation experienced by someone who is suddenly subjected to an unfamiliar culture, way of life, or set of attitudes. In article, there is a sample about a feeling: it is difficult to live here. Keeping your identity is difficult, naturally you will be attracted towards that, but it is not my culture. Religion teaches us to stay away from those things, but it is (205).The feeling when we go through culture shock just like we have asthma but people can only tell us to relax. As a major mental and physical problem of international students, culture shock has been focused and studied for several decades. Since the 2000s the research that supports the claim that the process of overcoming culture shock and adaptation is impacted by the region of origins and their relationships with host/home- country students, motivation and goals has not changed over time but it has evolved. During the 2000s, researchers have found out that international region of origins may greatly influence their adaptation. It can be understood as the differences between two cultures stunted adaptation. life style, common sense, way of thinking and so on, are formed by their home-culture environment. When they go to study abroad, they LI 2 not only need to make good grades but also form a new life in order to adjust to the new environment. If home and host culture are similar, students will have much less pressure. According to students from Eastern/Southeastern Asia reported significantly more inter/intrapersonal leisure constraints than students from Southern Asia and the Middle East/North (111). Eastern/Southeastern Asia have a more developed society and better education system than Southern Asia and the Middle East, so the students who come from the former origins are likely to have a higher education and be more open-minded which will help students adjust to a new culture. As research continued, scientists found another factor which greatly affects adaptation, relationships. As an essential part of students daily lives, relationships not only stand for friends or partners but social support that they can rely on. But sometimes relationships bring negative effects to adaptation. leisure constraints were positively associated with socializing with co-national peers and negatively associated with socializing with host national (Glass 111). Researchers found that too many interpersonal relationships with home- country persons are a barrier for adaptation. If a student devotes too much time to make home- country friendships, he is likely to have a hard time going through culture shock because he still lives with his own culture and has done nothing to adjust to the new culture. Researchers also pointed out that recreational participation is the outcome of relationships and they can promote each other. Participating in leisure activities not only helps students reduce stress but also gives them confidence so that they are able to make more friends. But international students do not participate in such activities. As a result, they miss the opportunity to make friends and relax. of leisure and relaxation could inadvertently exacerbate a sense of loneliness or depression, increase stress, and hinder the formation of supportive social (Glass 106). LI 3 As for now, the most recent research shows personal characteristics also plays an important role in adaptation. First, motivation is the decisive factor for adaptation. It is a strong factor which can decide mental state and attitude. more, when students feel depressed or confused, motivation is a strong support which gives students confidence and shows them the way. more autonomous international students felt in their decision to study abroad, the more likely it was that they would be happier, healthier, and more successful during their 433). Students will have clear goals and positive attitudes if they have high level of autonomous motivation. On the other hand, goals may also have side effect on reducing social difficulties that means unreasonable goals may make students feel upset or depressed. For example, if a student plans to overcome the culture shock within one week but he fails to do it, he may feel depressed and unconfident; those bad emotions make it harder for student to adapt the new environment. higher the importance of the preservation goals the less successful, happy, and healthy are the students at different times of their academic (Chirkov 433). So students need to know their abilities and make reasonable goals so that they will not feel disappointed in themselves. In conclusion, during the 2000s, researchers have found out that the adaptation of culture shock is greatly influenced by the homelands and their co-nation/home-nation networks, motivations and goals. Generally, region of origins decide thinking models and standards of behavior. Relationship greatly influences the progress of adaptation because it gives students social supports and reduces their pressure. Motivations and goals are vital for students. Students need motivations and goals to encourage themselves and make sure they will not lose mind when they have hard times. But students have to make reasonable goals in order not to trap themselves. LI 4 Works Cited Chirkov, V.I., et al. Further Examining The Role Motivation To Study Abroad Plays In The Adaptation Of International Students In  International Journal Of Intercultural Relations 32.(2008): 427-440. ScienceDirect. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Glass, Chris R., Edwin and Alfredo Urzua. Recreation, Intercultural Friendship, And International Adaptation To College By Region Of  International Journal Of Intercultural Relations 42.(2014): 104-117. ScienceDirect. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Newsome, Linda K., and Paul Cooper. International Cultural And Social Experiences In A British University: Such A Hard Life Is  Journal Of International Students 6.1 (2016): 195-215. ERIC. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. Zhou, Yuefang, et al. Theoretical Models Of Culture Shock And Adaptation In International Students In Higher  Studies In Higher Education 33.1 (2008): 63-75. ERIC. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.