Yadav Pradeep Yadav Miss Cat Modlin Jackson ENC 1101 4.30.2017 Renewable Resources Taking Over Non-Renewable Affect the Economy Many countries are shifting from non-renewable resources to the renewable resources such as wind, water, and solar to secure their future economies. Since the world now depends heavily on coal, oil, and natural gas to meet the energy requirements due to its affordability and high energy consent and now which are very scarce in world. Renewable energy resources have gained tremendous attention and acceptance in the past few years as governments and people all around the world are embracing their environmental responsibilities. Since renewable resources are not over-exploited Every country has a set renewable resources target, which may eventually end up in increased jobs, lower consumer expense, good business sense, the energy being universally accessible, good investment for the future to come, with more than expected success rate. And which means sustained development rate and economic stability can be achieved. We can see a green energy movement that is encouraging the corporate world to go green for better future. It can be said that renewable resources are taking over non-renewable resources hence affecting the world economy as well as the economies of different countries all together such as for example renewable resources supports american jobs, it promotes investment, and outperforms fossil fuels, and supports property and income tax for state and local community and many other ways. Yadav Renewable resources is one of the most important topics in this era and almost every environment movements taking place in the world is based on this topic. But the energy produced by the renewable resources very less in comparison to the non-renewable resource as global energy consumption of the renewable energy in 2010, was 16.7 percent as per as the reports of the business.com survey in 2010. Renewable resources are very costly and due to which it cannot be used on large. When we use sustainable energy it is referred to as due to how it is impacting the environment. Due to the burning of fossil fuels a lot of pollution is produced which can be prevented by the use of the renewable resources. Fossil fuels produce carbon dioxide emissions and due to which there is climate change. To encourage more use of the renewable resources there are many initiatives taken as, energy taxes are surcharged on fossil fuels so that the prices of renewable are more competitive and more people use renewable resources then there already are. Non-renewable resources cannot be readily replaced by the renewable energy resources due to the economic state we are in right now. The economies tend to grow in spite of the scarcity of the natural resources. As long as there is continuous flow of the technical progress that too Stiglitz analyzed that, sustainability of a long-run positive growth rate in a model la with exhaustible resources as essential inputs and with exogenous technological progress and But long-run growth in the overlapping generations economies with limited agents which use the renewable resources as important inputs in the production process with non-renewable resources as exogenous technological progress. As endogenous growth models are being brought up as the sustainability of positive long-run growth rate with exhaustible resources also have been analyzed. This mainly focuses on the infinitely-lived resources for the long run. And due to all the research work done it was found that market equilibrium cannot coincide with the allocations because of the distortions in the economy. The study of endogenous growth model Yadav in which two models are two engines are the exogenous technical progress in the dematerialization and the accumulation of the renewable natural resources. Since renewable resources can always be regenerated and can be counted as an environmental asset so we can totally depend on it. And hence the model is said to be endogenous. In order to sustain stability the former growth rate has to be more than zero but lessthan later. Every country has a set of things to do in achieving the renewable resources energy targets and is believed to be a very ambiguous goal. The plan is to be able to approach a stable economy by using the more attainable goals that could be achieved and reduce global warming at the highest extent possible, which is causing the climate changes. The benefits of switching from non-renewable resources to renewable resources are such as increase in jobs which directly affect the economies as new projects will be constructed which will require labor hence many people will get jobs, released by a trade association of wind and marine energy providers suggest that three to four indirect jobs are created for every person employed directly within the wind The consumer expense will also go less as setting up renewable resources supplies, gas will be eliminated and other power bills and different many ways to save money will come up for people who have hard time paying for the very expensive but useful source as electricity.As replacement of the non-renewable resources make good business sense. Investing in natural renewable resources can tremendously impact the government. As it would not need to import the energy worth billions which directly impact the economy of the country. Renewable energy can also reach the most energy deprived areas of the world such as the sub-Saharan Africa, which also in many cases affect the economy of the developing countries, by helping the children of that place access to technology, almost 1.3 billiion people Yadav had no access to electricity in the year 2011 and the vast majority was from Asia and Africa. Nothing but education is what can bring over a change in the world about how renewable resources are so far better than the non-renewable resources such as all the fossil fuels energy. But the question to everything is can renewable resource maintain its consistency in the market to supply for the energy demand that the non-renewable resources are fulfilling. And due to change from non-renewable resources to the renewable resources every country has noticed a fall in the carbon dioxide emission in the year 2014. The probability of success in this case is quite high as Costa rica according to the business.com again, reached an arguably high energy milestone as for 75 days the country produced energy by using only the renewable resources such as heavy rainfall, waterfall, solar energy and etc. The commitment attached to it is good both for the economy and the environment, which means healthier and wealthier being of the citizens of every country or as a world citizen. Every country is putting in billions of dollars to achieve the target of switching from the non- renewable energy resources to the renewable energy resources will finally pay off as better economies and better living standards for people of every country which means happier lives of people what the aim of it all is. Yadav Works Cited (1.) Agnani, Betty, and Amaia Iza. Growth In Overlapping Generation Economies With Non-Renewable  Journal Of Environmental Economics And Management 50.(2005): 387-407. ScienceDirect. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. (2.) Cohen, Steven. What Is Stopping The Renewable Energy Transformation And What Can The US Government  Social Research 82.3 (2015): 689-710. Academic Search Premier. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. (3.) Belbute, Manuel Madeira, and Paulo Brito. On The Relation Between The Endogenous Growth Rate Of The Economy And The Dynamics Of Renewable  (2009): RCAAP. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. (4.) Mason, Charles F. On Equilibrium In Resource Markets With Scale Economies And Stochastic  Journal Of Environmental Economics And Management 64.2010 Monte Verita Conference on Sustainable Resource Use and Economic Dynamics(SURED) (2012): 288-300. ScienceDirect. Web. 19 Feb. 2017 (5.) Ayhan. The Social, Economic, And Environmental Importance Of Biofuels In The  Energy Sources Part B: Economics, Planning & Policy 12.1 (2017): 47. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. (6.) k, and Stephen J. Turnovsky. Renewable Resources In An Endogenously Growing Economy: Balanced Growth And Transitional  Journal Of Environmental Economics And Management 48.(2004): 1018-1049. ScienceDirect. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Yadav (7.)CHRISTIAN GROTH RESOURCE USE AND ECONOMIC of Economics and EPRU*, University of Copenhagen. Studiestraede 6, DK-1455, Copenhagen K, Denmark (e-mail: chr.groth@econ.ku.dk)2007 (8.) Jacob William, resources: The Impact of Green Energy on the business.com, Strategy, last modified :February 22, 2017 url: https://www.business.com/articles/the-impact-of-green-energy-on-the-economy/