Dean 1 Daniel Dean Bob Botkins ENC1102 27 April 2017 Yes, Hydraulic Fracturing is Detrimental In a world increasingly concerned about the availability of natural resources, scientific innovations have opened the door to new methods of obtaining gases and oils. One of the most recent methods used to extract natural gases is hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing acts as a double-edged sword. It permits energy companies to can obtain previously unreachable sources of natural energy, but poses an environmental risk in the long term (Weinstein). Hydraulic fracturing is the process by which energy resource companies inject fracturing fluid (primarily water mixed with salt and other chemicals) deep into the earth shale plates, to open veins within the shale plates to bring oil and natural gases to the surface of the earth, to be extracted. Once the veins are open, the veins are kept open by the solutions in the fracturing fluid. Once the fracturing fluid is removed a decent flow of natural gases and crude oil rises to the surface of the earth to be stored and processed by these government funded energy seeking companies such as: Chevron Corp, ExxonMobil Corp, Cabot Gas and Oil. As stated above once the veins are opened they are left open, giving the oil companies the ability to come back and extract more gases. But with veins being open they are hazardous to the wildlife around the site but also nearby communities. Sometimes, the wells can spring a leak and leak into the local aquifers and reservoirs of water. Once these gases are leaked into the aquifers they are pumped into the wells of the nearby homes. The leading gas is methane which can be Dean 2 very fatal to the human body. Some cases that have been reported consist of, nausea, stomach aches, headaches and even death. Hydraulic fracturing also hurts the atmosphere, it has been reported in many rural areas. The boom in oil and gas activity has been linked to unhealthy spikes in ozone concentrations. In 2008 and 2011, increased ozone concentrations in Sublette County were associated with subsequent increases in outpatient clinic visits for respiratory problems. Researchers who looked at air pollution levels near fracking sites in Colorado also found an increased risk of chronic and sub-chronic effects mainly stemming from oil and gas related pollutants, which can harm the respiratory and neurological systems and lead to symptoms like shortness of breath, nosebleeds, headaches, dizziness, and chest tightness. Thus, while research into the health effects of air pollution from unconventional oil and gas development is ongoing, there is mounting evidence that it causes pollution, which can affect the health of workers and communities (Valinetina). The hydraulic fracturing experiment was first publicly attempted in the early 1940s in a small town in Oklahoma. The hydraulic fracturing experiment was later publicly proven successful in the early 1950s. Recent reports state that there have been over 2.5 million attempts of hydraulic fracturing in the U.S. alone. Because of the nature of the fracturing process it can only be applied in rural areas of America, helping North Dakota to become the second-largest oil, producing state in the U.S. Due to the rise in demand for energy sources, the energy source companies are prompted to begin to attempt fracturing closer to populated regions, which can be very hazardous to the occupants of the nearby towns. A prime example is the case of the Dimock Water (People Vs Cabot gas and oil). Here is what happened in Dimock: right around the time Cabot Oil and Gas began drilling natural gas wells in the community, several residents began experiencing severe problems with their water Dean 3 supplies. The most high-profile event happened on January 1, 2009, when Norma backyard water well blew up. Norma drinking water well was a time bomb. For weeks, workers in her small northeastern Pennsylvania town had been pumping natural gas deposits from a drilling rig a few hundred yards away. They cracked the earth and pumped in fluids to force the gas out. Somehow, stray gas worked into tiny crevasses in the rock, leaking upward into the aquifer and slipping quietly into well. Then, according to the working theory, a motor- ized pump turned on in her well house, flicked a spark and caused a New morning blast that tossed aside a concrete slab weighing several thousand pounds. Florentino home at the time, so it is difficult to know exactly what happened. But afterward, state officials found methane, the largest component of natural gas, in her drinking water. If the fumes that built up in her well house had collected in her basement, the explosion could have killed her. In 2009 about fifteen families filed a lawsuit against the Cabot oil company for the contamination of their drinking water, but Cabot Oil insisted that that contamination occurred naturally. Of the original 15 families who filed a federal lawsuit, all but two settled with the company in 2012. On March 10, 2016, a federal jury found Cabot Oil and Gas negligent for polluting their water wells and awarded the two families a total of $4.24 million. Cabot Oil and Gas, ExxonMobil and Chevron Oil, all can argue that the more fracturing sites that they open the more money they are contributing to the local economy. The oil companies argue that the jobs and monetary growth is important. But ask yourself is the making of money more important than the preservation of not only current generations but for future generations to come? Dean 4 The ultimate goal is to have fracking banned in every state. From Florida to California but we need the support of the general population to help us build our case for the federal government. Now is the time to take a stand for the wildlife and the families closest to the fracking sites. Now, is time protect these families and wildlife that are impacted by the fracking wells. The first steps: we need to target the loopholes in the agreement between Congress and the oil companies. These loopholes allow fracking to be legal because it is not listed in the environmental laws. As the public, we need to pressure our elected officials and state representative to have the law changed and loopholes to be taken out of the law. If enough of us speak out and protest this faulty fracking boom, we can convince our government officials to help protect the forest, our health, and our water. Dean 5 Works Cited .Dimock, PA: In The Fight Over NPR, NPR, 25 May 2016, stateimpact.npr.org/pennsylvania/tag/dimock/. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. Mcrae, Maria. Earthjustice, 23 Sept. 2015, earthjustice.org/climate-and- energy/oil-gas-drilling/fracking. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. Ruffalo, Mark. The Guardian. 13 Feb. 2016 http://www.ecowatch.com/mark-ruffalo-theres-no-fracking- that-can-be-done-safely1882173665.html Valentine, Katie. Fracking Wells Could Pollute The Air Hundreds Of Miles ThinkProgress. ThinkProgress, 30 Apr. 2015. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. Weinstein, Mark. Wisconsin International Law Journal (2013): 881.document