Roberts 1 Final Draft DJ Roberts Project 3 Comp 1101 5/1/2017 In the year 2014, there was an estimate of 1,197,704 violent crimes in the nation (FBI). Some of these violent crimes were committed by athletes. In society athletes can be looked at as role models. Once an athlete commits a crime, the general public will think okay to commit the same type of crime because they would get away with it or get the same type of punishment the athlete gets. Sports pages and other critics argue that the criminal justice system has done a poor job with handling cases involving athletes. An example to support this topic is an ex NFL player Ray Lewis who was accused of murder at a bar, went to trial and was acquitted. Ray Lewis continued to play football and later retired and was eventually inducted into The Hall of Fame. This would be one reason why I believe athletes that commit a crime are less likely to be punished compared to a non-athlete who commits the same type of crime. However, sports organizations do not always worry about an criminal background. Kids and fans look up to collegiate and professional athletes. If a star athlete commits a crime and is looked up to by a young athlete it would make it okay for that young fan to commit that same type of crime. A non example of an athlete committing a crime is Derek Jeter meaning he commit any type of crime to jeopardize his career and is also a well known athlete for his good behavior on and off the field. If Derek Jeter commits a serious crime that will have him arrested it could cause fans and young athletes to commit that crime and will end up with a stricter punishment than Derek Jeter. If athletes like Derek Jeter start committing crimes crime rates will increase because he is a role model for many young kids and fans. Christopher Kudlac states in his book or Foul: Sports and Criminal Behavior in the United that can play a positive role with both children and adults in teaching discipline, building character, Roberts 2 and promoting a healthy lifestyle. These benefits have led law enforcement, correctional officials, and the community to see sports programs as a way to fight This quote means that sports can help reduce crime rates in children and adults because sports and watching role models like Derek Jeter can be a way to fight crime. Crime rates among athletes can affect the general public if organizations create stricter punishments for athletes who commit crime. Organizations creating stricter punishments can reduce crime rates among athletes because athletes do not want to face a punishment. Some examples of stricter punishments are suspension for a long period of time without pay, kicked off the team indefinitely, as well as getting awards or titles taken away from you. Matthew Parlow and Kim young states in the article Misbehavior such criminality is perceived or real, sports leagues have begun to take a firmer stand on disciplining athletes for their transgressions. Commissioners of these leagues are imposing harsher and more frequent penalties when athletes commit criminal acts. This trend raises questions regarding authority of professional sports leagues to punish athletes for such This quote supports athletes committing a crime and being less likely punished because organizations professionally and collegiate are imposing harsher crimes among athletes in order reduce crime rates. Some researchers and experts in the sports field are skeptical about increasing punishments among athletes. The article Athletes and NCAA Violations with this statement. The article states that, seems that since the survey was conducted, the NCAA has gradually loosened up some of its restrictions, giving athletes a slightly bigger share of the pie. The NCAA has eliminated some rules because many minor violations were occurring with a high frequency anyway, and perhaps minor violations are a gateway to major violations. They also are skeptical of increasing punishments to increase compliance. Instead, they explicitly favor intervention with at-risk athletes and athlete education of the This quote does not agree with my proposed solution to the problem of athletes committing crime because it explains that the NCAA believes that athletes deserve a second chance. If organizations loosen up their rules among athletes, it could cause athletes to continue to commit crimes therefore crime rates will remain to increase. This is why organizations, professional and Roberts 3 collegiate, should create stricter punishments among athletes. Creating stricter punishments will deter athletes from committing crimes. The topic of Athletes and Crime is very complexed and always changing. In many cases athletes are more prone to committing a crime than a regular non-athlete. Athletes that are convicted of a crime not only hurts them but also the general public such as young athletes and fans around the community. If organizations create stricter punishments then athletes and people in the community are less likely to commit crimes and crime rates will be decreased. This topic matters because an everyday issue in the community.This is an everyday issue because if an athlete who is a role model towards a fan or young athlete commits a crime then the fan or young athlete will think okay for them to commit the same type of crime. Yet, many times a more harsher punishment than the athlete because athletes are well-known in the public. Roberts 4 Works Cited KIM, JY, & PARLOW, MJ 2009, MISBEHAVIOR: SPORTS LEAGUES AND PRIVATE Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology no. 3, p. 573. Kudlac, Christopher S. or Foul: Sports and Criminal Behavior in the United States : Sports and Criminal Behavior in the United Praeger, 2010. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=nl Michael M. Blue-Collar Crimes/White-Collar Criminals: Sentencing Elite Athletes Who Commit Violent Crimes  Sports Law no. 1, 2001, p. 427. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed shol&AN=hein.journals.mqslr12.19&site=eds-live. Winfree, Jason A. College Athletes and NCAA Violations  and Public no. 4, 2012, p. 661. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eds