Samuel Fonseca Guimaraes ENC 1101 Professor Uddin 4/10/2017 The Effects of Marijuana in the Teenager Brain Over the last decade, teenagers and young adults have widely used marijuana. In Ann Arbor, a college town in Michigan, for example, the number of college students smoking marijuana is the highest since the 1980s. There is a reason why smoking is illegal in most states; it is due to its effects on the brain, especially on adolescents. Also, the teenage brain is more vulnerable to the effects of cannabis; It is due to the immaturity of their brain, which is still going through chances. Since 2005, scholars have found a link between smoking during adolescence and psychological disturbs later in life. The effects can vary from decreasing IQ levels to schizophrenia. Using different methods of research, scholars have come to a consensus that the early use of marijuana is in fact linked to psychological disorders in adulthood. Since smoking causes permanent damage to the teenage brain, it should not be smoked by teenagers. However, there is an exception for the use of marijuana among teenagers, which is the medicinal use of cannabis. There are no articles discussing the medical use of marijuana especially among teenagers; although, there is a myriad of scholars who defend this use among all the ages. While most of the scholars argue that marijuana damages the brain, a couple authors claim that it can be used to treat many diseases. According to the Business Insider (2014), cannabis can be used on the treatments of glaucoma, severe seizures and other diseases. Furthermore, it can be used to treat anxiety, which is extremely common on teenagers and young adults. In 2010, researchers at Harvard Medical School claimed that low doses of THC can decrease the anxiety levels on someone. However, the amount of smoked matters; if one wants to have the relieving experience and decrease their anxiety levels, he/she must smoke a small quantity of marijuana; however, if one is exposed to high levels of THC, body will experience the opposite, leading them to panic attacks and other related disturbs. Furthermore, there is one big organization that supports the use of THC on medical situations, which is the American Cancer Society (ACS). According to this this entity, marijuana helps chemotherapy patients with the side effects of its sections. According to the ACS, cancer patients tend to vomit, have a lack of appetite and suffer from nausea; all these side effects from chemotherapy are reduced by the THC present in marijuana. Thus, not only smoking is used to combat these nausea and other side effects, as pharmacists have been working on isolating the THC molecule and create pills to increase the speed on which the THC is absorbed by the body, accelerating the process of reducing the side effects of chemotherapy. According to these authors, marijuana is not prejudicial to the teenage brain when taken in low doses. However, the problem with medical marijuana is the dosage. Marijuana is only used in medical treatments in low doses, generating minimal harm to the brain; however, teenagers do not consume low doses of cannabis and usually every day. They tend to smoke large quantities, and the larger the quantity, the more complex the results are, which can go from losing 8 points in IQ to developing schizophrenia in the future. The reason why adolescents suffer more harm than adults who smoke marijuana is that their brain is still immature, it is developing, and new connections, and smoking marijuana avoids these neuron connections to happen. Some authors argue that teenagers should smoke marijuana with no problems, once it is used for medical treatments, thus it does not harm the brain; however, these authors forget to mention the quantities used in treatments are lower than the quantities often used by adolescents, who tend to take large doses of THC. Low quantities do not promote the effect teenagers look for; the necessary amount to achieve this mental stage is considerable higher than the medicinal amounts. Conversely, many researches have been conducted on the link between marijuana and the brain on teenagers. One of the most remarkable researches was conducted by Dr. Tomas Pauz, Professor of Psychology and Psychiatry at the University of Toronto, who used fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging) machines to analyze the brain of 1,024 teenagers, both smokers and non-smokers. After a series of studies, his team found out that the adolescents who had smoked tended to reduce their IQ levels; perhaps, the most astonishing finding was a relation between marijuana and cortical tissue thickness in the brain, which is related to developing schizophrenia and other related disorders, where the thinner the tissue was, the higher was the likelihood to develop these disorders. research shows that teenagers who used marijuana on a regular basis and on considerable quantities had a thinner cortical tissue after a couple years. Additionally, an immature brain is extremely vulnerable to the effects of cannabis, the more it is exposed the more drastic the consequences are; for example, the effects range from decrease on IQ levels, what can be considered the smallest consequence, to increasing the risks of developing serious psychological disorders, such as schizophrenia. Other scholars have conducted similar studies, which have ended up with related conclusions. Moreover, the early use of marijuana does affect the brain in the future, in a more complex way than anyone could imagine. For instance, there are no academical articles supporting that cannabis has no relation with the brain, or that it is more beneficial than prejudicial, only popular press articles supporting it are available. Thus, this lack of academical articles disagreeing with a link between marijuana and the brain, especially in adolescents, shows that the most likely scenario is that marijuana does affect the brain. Even though it can be used as medicine and treat some diseases, it only works on low quantities, if someone takes more than they should, this person will experience just the downsides of the THC. Nevertheless, teenagers have no control over doses, they rarely take low doses of THC, they often take extremely high doses of THC. In addition, there are many studies on this link, and all of them have the same result, the earlier and the higher the doses taken, the larger are the odds to experience some psychological disorders. Even though cannabis can be used on treatments, it is necessary to keep in mind that the amount is extremely low; therefore, teenagers tend to overdose its use, generating more harm than benefits. It is also important to remember, smoking once or a few times during adolescence will not make someone a person or make them develop psychological disorders; the results are based on the regular use of substantial quantities of marijuana. Therefore, based on these studies, it is safe to affirm that marijuana harms the of the (Anderson, p2) - the frontal lobe -; which is the responsible for activities like thinking and reasoning in the brain. Additionally, the harms caused by smoking affect especially the hypothalamus (the responsible for turning short-term memories into long-term memories) last forever. Moreover, if a person does not stop smoking, his/her brain will experience higher levels of damage. Furthermore, the damage caused by the early use of cannabis lasts forever, plus, it is the reason why people who smoked marijuana on a regular basis tend to develop psychological disorders and/or lose IQ points. Works Cited Anderson, Jane E., Development in Adolescents: New Research - Implications for Physicians and Parents in Regard to Medical Decision Issues in Law & Medicine; Fall2015, Vol. 30 Issue 2, p193-196, 4p. Canady, Valerie, use by youth, schizophrenia genetic risk Brown University Child & Adolescent Behavior Letter; Oct2015, Vol. 31 Issue 10, p3-4, 2p Harvard Mental Letter. Medical marijuana and the mind. Harvard Health Publications, April 2010: http://www.health.harvard.edu/mind-and-mood/medical-marijuana-and-the-mind. Accessed 11 April 2017 Welsh, Jennifer and Loria, Kevin. 23 Health Benefits of Marijuana. Business Insider, April 2014: http://www.businessinsider.com/health-benefits-of-medical-marijuana-2014-4. Accessed 11 April 2017