Aviles 1 Saul Aviles Ms. Smith 04/30/17 Composition I Pros vs. Cons of Stem Cells in the Treatment of Diabetes Twenty-nine million individuals in the United States (9.3%) have been diagnosed with diabetes. Diabetes is a disease which affects the insulin producing B cells within the body, thus causing an increase in glucose levels. Even with the rapid advancements in technology, as well as medicine, a successful and dependable treatment procedure has yet to be created for the 2,000- year-old devastating disease. However, the discovery and understanding of stem cells may provide a definite cure for diabetes. Stem cells are unspecialized cells with the ability to manifest into different cells within the human body, when put in the ideal conditions. In short, stem cells can be placed into the pancreas of a diabetic individual, and the stem cells will develop into B cells, which in turn produce insulin, thus curing diabetes. Easier said than done, there is a lot to understand about stem cells and still much to learn before such a goal can be achieved. The use of stem cells to treat diabetes could provide a reliable, safe, and efficient treatment plan, however, the chance of stem becoming cancerous must also be considered. The current worldwide treatment for diabetes is pancreas and islet transplantation. However, a deceased donor is required and a few concerns include: Immune rejection, cumbersome technique, and a shortage of donors (Vanikar, 1077). Stem cells provide a solution since the stem cells come from the body, there is little to no chance of immune rejection of cells, the procedure will be safer and easier to perform in comparison pancreas transplantation, Aviles 2 and lastly, the rapid division of stem cells provide an unlimited number of cells for transplantation. Although Embryonic Stem cells (ESC) are the best fit for the job, ethical barriers, such as the destruction of a blastocyst, have halted their progress, thus other alternatives were searches out. Adult Stem Cells avoids the ethical restriction placed on ESC, and they can easily be transdifferentiated into insulin producing cells which can safely be transplanted inside of patients. In an experiment performed by El Hossary, the results of using stem cells in treating diabetes on diabetic mice can be seen. El Hossary used mesenchymal stem cells (MSC)(type of adult stem cell) derived from an umbilical cord which were then differentiated into induced pluripotent cells (IPC). This was done by being washed in high glucose DMEM for 14 days, and of fibronectin for 7 days in order to change the cells from a state to a round state. The mice were then injected either intravenous (tail vain) or intraperitoneal (through the peritoneum) and analyzed over a time span of 90 days. The mice injected intravenous reached an impressive low of FBG level at D.7 with 172.4mg/DI which stayed consistent throughout 56 days. The group injected intraperitoneal reached its lowest FBG level at D35 with 389.46mg/DI, which was lower than the control group, which reached its lowest FBG at 468.7mg/DI on D7 (El Hossary, 102-111). The intravenous group also showed an increase in body weight throughout the 56 days, which concludes that stem cells could prevent pancreatic islet damage to a certain extent in diabetic rats (El hoassary, 102-111). El Hossary was not the only one to obtain positive results from stem cell, two individual studies of Wang et al., despite different administration methods, similar results were (El Hossary). It can be concluded that El results are credible, and that stem cells can help treat diabetes in diabetic rats. It can also be Aviles 3 concluded that stem cells have great potential in being used to treat human patients diagnosed with diabetes. In two other experiments, done by Bao-heng and Shasha, the potential of stem cells in treating diabetes can be seen. Shasha separated diabetic mice into two groups, the control (received no MSC) and the experimental group (received MSC). Over a 3 month time span, experiment showed that diabetic mice injected with showed a significant decrease in blood glucose as well as a decrease in body mass than the mice in the control group (Shasha 143-154). Just as importantly, the mice, once dissected, showed regeneration of islets and healing of pancreatic damage caused by diabetes (Shasha 143-154). This shows that stem cells not only provide a cure for diabetes, but also reverses the damage done by diabetes to the pancreas to an extent. In the experiment performed by Bao-hang, Naringenin is injected along with ESC into diabetic mice to enhance the effects stem cells have on diabetic mice. Bao-heng found that Naringenin reduced the oxidative stress (kill the cells) in stem cells by an average of (Bao-heng 93-100). Bao-heng also found that Naringenin lead to a decrease in glucose levels, as well as insulin secretion level increased compared to the control (Bao-heng 93-100). Both experiments show that stem cells provide a cure for diabetes and that the efficiency and effectiveness of stem cells increases with each experiment and study. Although the use of stem cells for treating diabetes give a strong case, there are always risks to take into account. The retrieval of embryonic stem cells involves the destruction of the blastocyst (fertilized egg) (Master, 52). This has led to an outcry, because many see any fertilized egg as a human life, so in essence, the retrieval of ESC involves taking a life. The destruction of a blastocyst can also have detrimental effects on the women. These include but not limited to: strokes, renal failure, ovarian or uterine cancer, infection, and ovarian hyper stimulation Aviles 4 syndrome (Master, 52). Due to the ethical protest and physical effects created by ESC retrieval, its progress had been halted until safer ways of retrieval are created. Although the use of adult stem cells overcomes the ethical barrier, there are still risks involved, including the possibility of the cells becoming cancerous (Dey, 34). Both stem cells and cancerous cells share many identical qualities, such as the ability to divide quickly, ability to give rise to multiple cell lineages, expression of telomerase, and similar signaling pathways (Dey, 34). Due to their similar properties, there is the possibility that when injected inside of a patient, a stem cell can begin to divide uncontrollably, leading to the formation of a tumor. Overall, using stem cells in treating diabetes can potentially lead to physical damages, as well as deadly diseases within the patient and donors. The use of stem cells for treating diabetic patients includes many pros and cons, however, much information is still needed to be discovered about stem cells before such goals can become a reality. Diabetes is a disease that affects more and more individuals every year, and a cure must be found. Stem cells can provide a safe, efficient, and reliable treatment plan if given the opportunity to be studied and experimented on with less restrictions. Aviles 5 Works Cited Dey, Devaveena1, ddey@mrdg.iisc.ernet.in, and Annapoorni2, anu@mrdg.iisc.ernet.in Rangarajan. Stem Cells: A Dormant Volcano Within Our  Resonance: Journal Of Science Education 12.3 (2007): 27-34. Education Source. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Master, Zubin1, zubin@zubsplace.com, and G.2, g.crozier@gmail.com Crozier. The Ethics Of Moral Compromise For Stem Cell Research  Health Care Analysis 20.1 (2012): 50-65. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Vanikar, Aruna V., Hargovind L. Trivedi, and Umang G. Thakkar. Stem Cell Therapy Emerging As The Key Player In Treating Type 1 Diabetes  Cytotherapy 18.(2016): 1077-1086. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. El-Hossary, Nancy, et al. Intravenous Vs Intraperitoneal Transplantation Of Umbilical Cord Mesenchymal Stem Cells From Jelly In The Treatment Of Streptozotocin- Induced Diabetic  Diabetes Research & Clinical Practice 121.(2016): 102-111. CINAHL. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Xing, Bao-heng, Feng-zhen Yang, and Xiao-hua Wu. Full Paper: Naringenin Enhances The Efficacy Of Human Embryonic Stem Cell-Derived Pancreatic Endoderm In Treating Gestational Diabetes Mellitus  Journal Of Pharmacological Sciences 131.(2016): 93-100. ScienceDirect. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Lv, Shasha, et al. Mesenchymal Stem Cells Transplantation Ameliorates Glomerular Injury In Streptozotocin-Induced Diabetic Nephropathy In Rats Via Inhibiting Oxidative  Diabetes Research & Clinical Practice 104.1 (2014): 143-154. CINAHL. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Aviles 6