Stefan Dimitropoulos 1 Stefan Dimitropoulos Dr. Uddin ENC 1101 March 26, 2017 Project 2: Final Draft Scholars who conduct research on physical exercise list a number of health benefits their participants experience. A general list that experimenters find is muscular strength, muscular endurance, decreased risk of cardiovascular disease, loss and maintenance of body fat percentage, and positive mindset. For the purpose of this essay, the term (term coined by Thomas DeLorme) refers to the health benefits of muscular strength and muscular endurance. The terms or will summarize the health benefits of decreased risk of cardiovascular disease and loss and maintenance of body fat percentage. Different studies are often formulated by scientists to explore which types of exercise are better for yielding which of those listed health benefits. Altogether, scholars agree that the best way for non-athletes to stay physically healthy is to engage in multiple types of exercise. Campos et al 2002 study experimented to find the benefits of low repetition, intermediate repetition, and high repetition resistance training in untrained men. Participants underwent an 8- week exercise program. They were randomized into the low, intermediate, or high repetition group or the non-exercise control group. All groups experienced benefits that would be considered healthy for an untrained man, but each benefits differed slightly. The low repetition group experienced the most significant gain in strength. The high repetition group experienced the most significant gain in muscle endurance. The high repetition group was also Stefan Dimitropoulos 2 the only group to experience an increase in aerobic time to exhaustion. The low and intermediate repetition groups experienced significant muscle hypertrophy (growth in muscular size) whereas the high repetition group experienced little hypertrophy. The true purpose of the scholars behind this experiment was to achieve supporting evidence for the idea of the strength-endurance continuum. At the end of their study, the experimenters said, however, these data demonstrate that both physical performance and the associated physiological adaptations are linked to the intensity and number of repetitions performed, and thus lend support to the  (Campos et al 50). They did conclude that in order to improve in all aspects of the strength-endurance continuum, which for our purposes is included in our definition of all three repetition schemes must be performed. Faigenbaum and Myer conducted a study in 2000 to determine the possibilities of injury in children and adolescents that participate in resistance training. Resistance training in their study was defined as strength (low repetition), endurance (high repetition), and body weight training. While making progress on their study, they also documented the health benefits they experimentally found the children and adolescents to have gained from resistance training, addition to enhanced muscular strength and motor skill performance, regular participation in a pediatric resistance training can facilitate weight control, strengthen bone, and increase a young resistance to sports-related (Faigenbaum and Meyer 161). Some of the many benefits they identified were increased muscular endurance, increased muscular power, enhanced motor skills, improved insulin sensitivity, improved blood lipid profile, and a more positive attitude toward physical activity. Faigenbaum and Myer 2000 study and Campos et al 2002 study were conducted around the same time and agree that engaging in different types of resistance Stefan Dimitropoulos 3 training brings all the health benefits of the strength-endurance continuum as well as some aerobic health benefits. Alberga et al studied in 2015, the effects of aerobic and resistance training observed in obese adolescents. Participants were randomized into four groups: aerobic training, resistance training, combined aerobic and resistance training, and the non-training control group. Aerobic training was defined as jogging and biking and similar exercises. Resistance training was defined as the use of weight machines and free weights. The factors tested for within the interest of this writing were decreases in abdominal fat known as SAT, and decreases in the ApoB/ApoA-1 ratio. ApoB is a protein associated as the main active component in bad cholesterol, a significant contributor to cardiovascular disease. Decrease in the ApoB/ApoA-1 ratio is directly correlated by research to decreases in percent chance of gaining a cardiovascular disease. It was observed that all groups showed decreases in SAT, and the combined group and the aerobic group showed decreases in the ApoB/ApoA-1 ratio, but the combined training group showed a significantly larger decrease in the ApoB/ApoA-1 ratio than the aerobic and resistance training groups. Some similarities were noticed between this study and the last study mentioned, regardless of their fifteen year difference in publication. Alberga et al 2015 study clearly shows decrease in body fat percentage due to aerobic activity. Myer and Faigenbaum 2000 study primarily showed muscular benefits of resistance training, but it did also show improvements in lipid metabolism, which is noted as an aerobic benefit in the Monteiro et al 2015 study. Campos et al 2002 also showed that high repetition training leads to aerobic benefits. Combining the three studies, we see that aerobic activity and high repetition training all yield cardiovascular benefits. What is different about the Alberga et al study fifteen years later is that they are exploiting how aerobic exercise in combination with resistance training amplifies the cardiovascular health benefits. Stefan Dimitropoulos 4 Ahktar et al 2013 study tested for benefits of yoga training in male and female adults ages 18-22. Experimenters found cardiovascular improvements due to yoga training by using a six minute walk test. They also found that less recovery time was needed after a workout upon completion of the 8-week yoga training program. Scholar Tiffany Fields, in a 2011 study, also obtained evidence that yoga training can increase muscular strength, endurance, and help with weight loss. Ahktar and Fields together show that yoga training can help with all of the aspects we have attributed to the physical health of non-athletes. Many studies have been structured in order to test for the effects of different types of physical training. Such studies include those spoken of above. The health benefits listed in the beginning of this writing are what most non-athletic people consider Generally, experimenters have found that the best way to achieve the most overall amount of health benefits is by engaging in multiple types of physical training; and they mostly all came across this result by using physically untrained participants. Word Count: 1026 Stefan Dimitropoulos 5 References: Field, Tiffany. Yoga Clinical Research  Complementary Therapies in Clinical Practice17.1 (2011): 1-8. Web. Alberga, A. S., D. G. P. Kenny, G. S. Goldfield, S. Hadjiyannakis, R. Gougeon, P. Phillips, J. Malcolm, G. Wells, S. Doucette, J. Ma, and R. J. Sigal. Effects of Aerobic and Resistance Training on Abdominal Fat, Apolipoproteins and High-sensitivity C-reactive Protein in Adolescents with Obesity: The HEARTY Randomized Clinical International Journal of Obesity 39.10 (2015): 1494-500. Web. Akhtar, Pooja, Sujata Yardi, and Murtaza Akhtar. Effects of Yoga on Functional Capacity and Well  International Journal of Yoga 6.1 (2013): 76. Web. Campos, Gerson, Thomas Luecke, Heather Wendeln, Kumika Toma, Fredrick Hagerman, Thomas Murray, Kerry Ragg, Nicholas Ratamess, William Kraemer, and Robert Staron. Muscular Adaptations in Response to Three Different Resistance-training Regimens: Specificity of Repetition Maximum Training  European Journal of Applied Physiology 88.1-2 (2002): 50-60. Web. Faigenbaum, Avery D., and Gregory D. Myer. Pediatric Resistance  Current Sports Medicine Reports 9.3 (2010): 161-68. Web. Monteiro, Paula Alves; Chen, Kong; Lira, Fabio Santos; Cicotti Saraiva, Bruna Thamyres; Mello Antunes; Barbara Moura; Campos, Eduardo Zapaterra; and Freitas Jr. Ismael Forte. and aerobic exercise training promote similar benefits in body composition and metabolic profiles in obese Lipids in Health & Disease. 11/26/2015, Vol. 14, p1-9.