1 Visual Analysis of The U.S. English Organization Nikhita Lal University of South Florida 2 Visual Analysis Citizens of the United States communicate using the English language without even thinking about it, but what most people know is that English is not the official language of the United States. In fact, the United States is absent of an official language, and this has been a long going debate for quite a while now. The U.S. English organization is oldest and largest non-partisan action group dedicated to preserving the unifying role of the English language in the United The U.S. English organization effectively promotes their mission of having English as the official language of the U.S. by using a bold choice of diction to enhance pathos and credibility for ethos. The U.S. English organization uses bold and powerful advertisements for the country to see and interpret to get their message across. They use compelling images that contain a specific design arrangement as well as rhetorical appeals to enhance their goals. The first image used is an image displayed on their official website, under media and photos. The first thing you see is a very official looking politician desk. The main object of the image is this desk. This gives the audience an official and mature viewpoint just by having a quick glance of the image, and not even reading anything. Next, at the bottom of the plaque that is displayed on the desk, you can see the name written in its formal manner. The use of this, shows the rhetorical appeal ethos to show that U.S. English is a legitimate organization and holds credibility. However, this is not the only way that this image shows reliability. There is a name of the person whose desk the image is showing belongs to. The name on the desk is Ryan he is on the House of Representatives for Pennsylvania. Having this image with a background on a person who is already involved in politics increases the chance of the audience to gain the trust and possibly later supporting them. 3 Another important rhetorical appeal displayed in this image is pathos. The quote displayed is United States of America built, powered, and made great by immigrant who learned The words States of and are written in a red color compared to the rest of the words in black. The overall image, has quite a dark color scheme so the red does stand out for the audience. This appeals to the people in more of an emotional manner because not everyone in the United States knows how to speak English. If a non-English speaker was reading this statement in this image, then that person would feel not included in the country they are living in and perhaps feel like they never will be accepted. These words chosen in this statement give the image a more direct and biased approach to the audience to get their mission heard. The words powered, and made also enhance that emotional appeal. That is a powerful choice of diction that is used and someone reading it might think that if they have not learned English they cannot bring anything to this developed country of the United States. This would forcefully encourage people to learn English so that they are not one of those people. Also, it would allow people to realize how much the English language has guided the country to be the where it is now and how without the English language the United States be the United States of America. The other image used has more of a silent but powerful approach. The image displayed a picture of the United States with the American flag in the background. However, it is not a normal picture of the United States. Each state is represented with something different. The states that displayed the individual state seal are the states that already have English as the official language on a state level. The images that display the flag of the state are the ones that have still not declared English as the official language, hence why it is not the official language of the country. As an audience member, they can see that there are more states that have declated 4 English as the official language. the state level, 32 states now have English as their official language and several more are considering similar legislation. Since 2006 Arizona, Idaho, Kansas, Oklahoma and West Virginia have enacted official English legislation with the help of U.S. Showing that more than half of America already has made a decision for English as the language, encourages the audience by using logos. This image can also be considered using a pathos appeal because if an audience member is not from one of the States that has declared English as their official language then they will feel possibly left out because they have the state seal displayed on their state on the map. The use of colorful seals and flags individual to each state mixed with the overall United States American flag in the background promotes unity and people would want that for the better of their country. The U.S. organization has been working hard to make English as the official language of the United States. The images they choose use rhetorical appeals such as pathos, logos, and ethos to promote their message and allow the people of the United States to hear and see what their mission is. When people look at the images they may feel a variety of different opinion regarding the specific elements of the images but overall the objective is for citizens to understand that the best choice is making English the national language. They have done this through showing credibility to gain the trust and reliability. The emotional connections from the images also connect to the audience and cause many thoughts cross their mind about the issue. Through emotional appeals, logistic views, and along with credibility the main focus of the U.S. English organization is to spread their message loud and clear of making English the national language and bringing awareness to this current and important issue. 5 References 08/10/10, M. S. (n.d.). English: a solution in search of a problem. Retrieved February 9, 2017, from https://www.minnpost.com/community-voices/2010/08/official-english- solution-search-problem Crawford, J. (n.d.). Retrieved April 18, 2017, from http://www.languagepolicy.net/archives/question.htm Why English should be the official language of the United States. (n.d.). Retrieved February 9, 2017, from http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2014/dec/31/why-english- shouldbeofficial-language-united-states/ 6 7