Chang 1 Jarred Avery Chang Instructor Modlin-Jackson ENC1101 4/9/2017 The Effect of Renewable Energy Sources such as Wind and Solar on the Level of Biodiversity in California Over an extended period of time, renewable energy sources such as wind and solar shows promising figures towards the conservation of the environment. A greener environment due to a decrease in emissions from non-renewable sources of energy thus leads to a safer habitat and improved living conditions for the populations of wildlife around California. However, the improper implementation of renewable energy sources such as wind and solar can also be detrimental to the level of biodiversity. Negative effects involving the surrounding wildlife can be mitigated or in fewer cases avoided. Therefore, responsible parties should focus on employing less harmful methods when implementing, operating and siting renewable energy sources. Failure to do so may lead to various irreversible changes in the surrounding habitats and daily routines of the many nearby populations of wildlife, resulting in a dramatic decrease in the levels of biodiversity in California. In order to maintain a sustainable level of biodiversity, researchers have discovered newer ways to cushion the impact of the implementation of renewable energy resources on the level of biodiversity. These methods are simple, cheap and effective at mitigating damage to the level of biodiversity. One of the reasons why renewable energy sources can negatively affect the level of biodiversity is due to the fact that solar and wind farms require a large amount of space to operate. This causes the destruction of large areas of habitat during the installation of these Chang 2 sources of energy. When a habitat is destroyed, it completely removes an ecosystem from the affected area, leading to a decrease in the population of wildlife. As researcher and scholar Alexandros Gasparatos describes, of the well-documented effects of solar energy on ecosystems and biodiversity manifest through the loss and change of (Gasparatos 162). A good example of this occurring is when observing the feeding strategies as well as the reproductive cycles of a myriad of different species across the affected areas. Most of these processes depend on a habitat to function at all. Without a habitat, the affected populations are forced to migrate or perish. More recent statistics have also blamed wind turbines for the decrease in the level of biodiversity among avian species. In the words of Edward B. Arnett, the most significant consequence in operating a wind turbine is its potential to collide with (Arnett 23). He has estimated that over almost three hundred thousand birds die each year due to collisions with the blades of the wind turbines. This usually occurs as birds periodically migrate over great distances when it is time for them to mate. They then come across several wind turbines and risk colliding with the constantly rotating blades, often leading to a violent death. This occurrence interrupts the breeding cycle of several species of birds and causes a following decrease in their populations. This threatens the level of biodiversity among the birds which reside in California as well as those of a foreign origin. Another significant impact on the level of biodiversity are the multiple changes in the habitat caused by the operation of solar panels. As explained by Alexandros Gasparatos, operation of solar panels provides the surrounding area with an excess of reflected light, which are harmful to the surrounding wildlife by altering their daily (Gasparatos 166). Insects will be wrongfully attracted to the light reflected from the solar panels and select it as a breeding Chang 3 ground, lowering the success rate of reproduction. This not only causes an increase in the number of deaths among insects, but also attracts the predators of said insects towards the solar panels, which are known to be lethal to birds, effectively turning a solar farm into a trap. Furthermore, solar panels are also known to be generate large amounts of heat, which require a large supply of water. This could lead to a drastic change in the habitats where water is scarce, such as California. In the words of Cassandra Brunette, should be put into place to help mitigate the impacts that are already occurring and to assist species in coping and adjusting to changes in their habitat caused by renewable energy (Brunette 4). Although the presence of a source of renewable energy is not exactly a good thing for the wildlife surrounding it, recent research has discovered a multitude of methods which can be employed to effectively cushion the impacts of the installation and operation of these renewable sources of energy, such as wind and solar. Among the most effective of methods is a process known as siting, which is simply choosing the area with the least amount of interaction with wildlife. This ensures that animals are able to migrate, reproduce and feed with minimal to zero amount of interaction with sources of renewable energy. As, explained by David Stoms, best way to minimize environmental is to avoid sites where impacts are likely to be unacceptably (Stoms 57). Another useful method is by temporarily halting the operations these sources of energy during high levels of animal activity. For example, during a migration of birds, wind turbines could be shut down or operate at a lower capacity to allow the birds a safe passage to their respective destinations. Solar farms on the other hand, have been known to continuously develop methods new to the usage of herbicides as well as developing more efficient systems which require less water to harvest solar (Stoms 57). Chang 4 Some have been known to say that the mitigation of the negative impacts on biodiversity caused by renewable energy sources are negligible because the benefits to the ecosystem caused by avoiding the use of non-renewable energy sources greatly outweigh its disadvantages. While transitioning from a non-renewable source of energy towards a renewable source of energy is greatly beneficial to ecosystems in general, the negative impacts caused by improper implementation of renewable energy sources could have destructive consequences to the levels biodiversity in the surrounding habitats. This could lead to an imbalance in the ecosystem and a great loss of wildlife. Therefore, careful steps should be taken and the damages caused cannot be ignored. Chang 5 References: Stoms, David M., Stephanie L. Dashiell, and Frank W. Davis. Siting Solar Energy Development To Minimize Biological  Renewable Energy, 2013, vol. 57. no. 1, ScienceDirect: AGRIS. Accessed: Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Gasparatos, Alexandros, et al. Renewable Energy And Biodiversity: Implications For Transitioning To A Green  Renewable And Sustainable Energy. vol. 70, no.1, 2017, pp. 161-184. ScienceDirect, doi: 10.1016/j.rser.2016.08.030, Accessed Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Brunette, Cassandra L., John Byrne, and Christopher K. Williams. Resolving Conflicts Between Renewable Energy And Wildlife By Promoting A Paradigm Shift From Commodity To Commons-Based Policy  Journal Of International Wildlife Law And Policy 4 2013, vol. 16, no. 4. HeinOnline, DOI: 10.1080/13880292.2013.844000, Accessed Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Arnett, Edward B., and Roel F. May. Mitigating Wind Energy Impacts On Wildlife: Approaches For Multiple  Human-Wildlife Interactions, 2016, vol.10, no.1, Accessed Web. 5 Feb. 2017.