Soufyane Mamouch Professor Meredith Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 30 April 2017 Mexican immigration in the United State In 2015, Hispanic immigrants represented 13.5% of the total United States population at 321.4 million. Just in the past 10 years their population has increased by approximately 15 million. The reason for their coming include; family ties, employment or just to improve welfare and happiness. These large numbers can bring hope or concern to native community members. From an economic standpoint, this large influx can bring a boom to the relatively regions which is the rural areas. With a large movement of people to a new area, brings a need for food, housing, and jobs. All of which increase the wealth of the region, because they are spending money to get these necessities. Along with an increase in the economy, comes an increase in diversity. Interracial marriages and high fertility rates lead to a blending of American and Hispanic cultures. With that being said, the mixing of cultures allows for new norms to be formed, in the gender roles and societal standards previously followed in their native country. All in all, I believe that this large movement of Hispanic immigrants to the United States within the last 50 years will bring beneficial changes to our economy, culture, and diversity. The movement of Mexican immigration to the rural areas in the united state could help increase the economy stance of these regions. They will bring money, work, and boom in the housing market. Furthermore, these large numbers have provided growth in restaurants because they work in agriculture that help increase the output and export for instance fruit, and vegetables, instead of import it from out of the country with a high price. On the other hand, the progress in construction jobs, this movement improved the infrastructure by building railroad to facilitate the mobility between the cities and the state as well as building dams to save the rainwater to use in watering of agriculture crops and the daily needs for these rural areas lead increased the availability of services to Americans; such as lawn care and agriculture. In addition, the employers are able to higher these workers at a much lower price than American workers. The workers offer flexibility for these work sectors considering their skills sets allow them to do all things from building walls to picking field crops. The employers are able to use these immigrants to increase their work force on short notices. Some may say that the immigrants are taking the jobs of the local people causing a decrease in their personal wealth, but as a whole they are increasing the amount of money available because they are working at much lower prices allowing for an allocation of money to other places. The influx of Mexican immigration could lead cultural to these small towns. We can define the culture as a shared set of values or belief a group has. The population of Mexican immigration has had effect not just on the economics of the U.S population, but also the culture. This can be seen by the expansion of their food, music, and language in our rural areas. The is a big part of their culture and that sharing of how they cook their food can help find new way to cook our food. In addition the use of their language could break the language barriers and will ne able to communicate with people from South America. Also the use of language will allow for trade between countries and that altimetry will allow diversity. As well as the use of their language in mainstream music and popular culture has blurred language boundaries. Education for their children is now a social norm; boundaries that previously stopped them from contraception and strict gender roles are being diminished. Politically, they play a major role in elections, and has a heavy sway on the vote count. This large immigration will lead to a bonding of races and culture making America nation rather than an area divided by race. Some may say that such a shift towards the American culture may be too serious of a drift from their own that they will completely forget their native ways. But they are not recognizing that the Mexican immigrants are incorporating their own into ours, not ending it completely. A change and incorporation of different religions, values, relationships, and education can be predicted, but be feared. Along with a change in the economics and culture, this large movement of immigrants into the United States has caused a burst in diversity, which is the blending, or mixing of different cultures. There has been an increase in interracial marriage and birth rates. Since Mexican are documented for having a high fertility rate compared to other races, there is hope that they will compensate for the lower fertility rates of Americans, and lead to a larger This mixing of Mexican and Americans in workplaces, marriages, and friendships lead to an exchanging of skills. Mexicans have many tricks and trades that are of value to business owners and the sharing of them could lead to success. This sharing of knowledge leads for better products, and expertise in more areas. On the contrary, it may be thought that trade would decrease because of the language barriers, which is true initially but eventually those boundaries will be blurred. New ideas lead to a greater variety of good and services, and increase the likelihood of trade. Being able to break that language barrier between the seller and the buyer from Latin countries will increase the likelihood and success of the trade. In conclusion, the movement of Mexican immigration to the United State has allot of positive aspects to the country economically, culturally, and diversely. Since this influx of Mexican immigration invades the rural areas in united state helped improved the agriculture sector, and transportation. On the other hand, they bring their culture to share it with ours for instance food, language, and music. Finally they make the nation more diverse this large movement into US caused bursting diversity there has been increase in interracial marriage and birth rate. Peter b, Nelson, et. al. migration and labor market flexibility in the rural amenity destinations in the United Journal of Rural Studies, vol. 36, 2015, pp. 121-136 doi: 10.1016/j.jrurstud.2014.07.008. Lynn A, Bryan, et . al. and learning in rural Mexico: a portrait of student responsibility in everyday school Teaching and Teacher Education, no. 21, 2005, pp. 33-48 doi: 10.1016/j.tate.2004.11.004. Maternowska, Catherine culture and reproductive decision-making among recent Mexican migrants in Culture, health & sexuality, vol. 12, no. 12, 2010, pp. 29-43 doi: 10.1080/13691050903108688. Lichter, Daniel or Fragmentation? Racial Diversity and the American Demography, vol. 50 no. 2 , 2013, pp. 359- 391 doi: 10.1007/s13524- 013-0197- 1. Crowley, Martha, et. al. fortunes? Economic well-being of Latinos and African Americans in new rural Social Science Research. vol. 51, 2015, pp. 77-92 doi: 10.1016/j.ssresearch.2014.11.007. Hyde, Allen , et. al. and earnings inequality in new small-town Social Science Research