1 Taofeek Braimoh Sabah Firoz Uddin Composition 1 March 25 th , 2017 Birth Control Birth control is an issue that has caught the attention of scholars from all over the world, these scholars have conducted various research on birth control using different methods and mediums to arrive at their conclusions. Between the period of 2000 and 2017 scholars have argued that birth control has positive effects and therefore should be encouraged but recently, majority of scholars disagree saying that although birth control has positive effects, the negative effects of birth control outweigh the positive effects and as such it should be discouraged. According to Jinying scholar, birth control potentially has positive effects and benefits. In Estimation on The Effects of Birth Control Policy Since 1972, Wang Jinying states article uses the population development equation of a population dynamic system to stimulate and compare population changes from 1972 to 2000 with four alternative this is the method used in this article which arrived at the conclusion that implementation of birth control policy lessened the burden of working population, brought about the golden time of 2 population age structure in china during the intersection of centuries, and provided the best opportunity, the optimal human resources and conditions for sustainable development of economy and society in the From, this readers understand that birth control can play a major role in the economy and provide positive effects which is very advantageous. In contrast to this, in Behavioral Methods of Family Planning: A Comparative Study of Efficacy and Safety of Fertility Awareness Based Methods and Birth Control Pills, Ana Maria Dumitru states that are reported advantages to the use of both FABMs and OCPs, with the major difference being that the OCPs also come with a significant number of reported adverse medical Dumitru admits that birth control does have some positive effects but it also has a number of negative health effects. From the article, Dumitru also mentions that 100 million women worldwide use the birth control pill (Oral Contraceptives, or as stated earlier OCPs come with unfavorable medical effects and Dumitru has informed readers that over 100 million women use OCPs instead of FABMs. To support this claim, Dumitru conducted a research which involved the use of articles on both OCPs and FABMs and explains that these articles were observed by two reviewers and then finally by a third reviewer just to make sure and proceeds to provide the results which has been previously stated. In Impact of an Online Birth Control 3 Support on Unintended Pregnancy, Jill Antonishak opposes what Dumitru is implying by providing an alternative means of birth control Antonishak introduces Bedsider.org as online birth control support network developed by The National campaign to prevent teen and unplanned pregnancy, with design expertise and guidance of basically Bedsider.org is a means of birth control with no substantial negative effects on health whatsoever. This serves as an alternative means to birth control because it lectures, informs and advises women on how to manage their problems with birth control effectively. The purpose of Bedsider.org is to try as much as possible to reduce unintended pregnancies as much as possible and to provide moral support for victims of unintended pregnancy. As Antonishak writes, were selected from the GFK knowledge panel, a probability-based web panel designed to be representative of the United Antonishak explains that the method carried out in this research involved a where between the ages of 18 and 29 were invited to From the article, it is clear that Bedsider.org is the major medium or tool used to conduct the research on birth control. Antonishak proceeds to say, we believed that Bedsider may be more useful if women are able to tailor their use to their specific Bedsider.org has already proved to be a 4 useful and effective method of birth control but Antonishak suggests that it can still be improved. Finally, Antonishak concludes that to Bedsider.org reduced pregnancy scares, unintended pregnancy and unprotected sex. There were also improvements in the use of a more effective method of birth This informs readers that exposure to Bedsider has helped reduced rates of unwanted pregnancies which can lead to low casualties and low health threats. Similarly, in Family Change and Continuity in Iran: Birth Control Use Before First Pregnancy, Abbasi-Shavazi is saying something close to what Antonishak is inferring by sharing the main idea that birth control have harmful effects but in this case Shavazi focuses on Iran. Shavazi is talking about the effects of birth control on the Iranian families. of the Iranian family and gender have changed dramatically; examples in include the most rapid fertility decline ever observed, from over six births to slightly above two in the 1985-2000 (1309), Shavazi says this to provide a brief history as to the birth control situation in Iran. Shavazi writes, April and May of 2002 the Iran Fertility Transition survey (IFTS) reinterviewed 5,190 women aged (1314), the purpose of this statement is to introduce readers to the method used for this research which involves a survey. After the results of the research were collated, Shavazi concluded that birth control in Iran does not reflect the emergence of conjugal family, at least not Although Shavazi does not state 5 that birth control has either positive or negative effects, he presents his argument and concludes on it in a way that readers are to believe that birth control is not harmful. In conclusion, Jinying, Antonishak and Shavazi share a common opinion about the effects of birth control but Dumitru opposes this opinion. Each scholar conducted a research and came out with their conclusions, some scholars like Shavazi and Antonishak used a similar method in which they achieved their opinion based on what people experiencing birth control had to say by conducting a survey. From these scholars, readers can deduce that although birth control has some negative effects, its positive effects prove to be more advantageous. 6 Works Cited: Abbasi-Shavazi, Mohammad Jalal, et al. Family Change And Continuity In Iran: Birth Control Use Before First  Journal Of Marriage And Family 71.5 (2009): 1309-1324. PsycINFO. Web. 14 Feb. 2017 Antonishak, Jill, et al. Impact of an Online Birth Control Support Network on Unintended  Social Marketing Quarterly, vol. 21, no. 1, Mar. 2015, p. 23. Dumitru, Ana Maria and Marguerite Duane. Behavioral Methods of Family Planning: A Comparative Study of Efficacy and Safety of Fertility Awareness Based Methods and Birth Control  Issues in Law & Medicine, vol. 31, no. 2, Fall2016, pp. 205-209. Jinying, Wang. Estimation on the Effects of Birth Control Policy Since 1972  Chinese Journal of Population Science 5 (2006):003.