Coladonato 1 Sebastian Coladonato Bob Botkin Enc1102 22 April 2017 Eavesdropping teenage smartphones Smartphones, the miracle, was revealed to consumers in the year 1994, and since then, it has transformed into a portable everything. Literally, smartphones have they have calculators, they are game systems, they are cameras, they are music players, televisions, the only thing consumers cannot use it for is eating it, which will most likely be about to be released soon. Though the one thing smartphone producers and sellers really highlight is the fact that the smartphones themselves do not really ever turn off. Many consumers are clueless of the fact that anybody can be listening and watching at any point and time while you have your smartphone on you. These over watching eyes need to be taken down and if not then the people buying the products should be properly informed about it. The little harmless device that grew up in our pockets is now becoming an eavesdropping teenager. The smartphone started at the bottom and made it at the top which is where it is nicely seated as of now. They have a 9 stage timeline with ever stage helping the next stage become more complicate. First it started as having a normal phone, text messaging, and games, the next version included some aspects as cameras, handset envy, and phantom texts, the 3rd transition included internet, phones on the table (fashion statement), and emails to go; the 4 th transition included music, and apps; the 5 th transition included boarding passes, mobile banking, digital assistants; the 6 th transition included social networking and the phone itself becoming waterproof; the 7 th transition included mobile dating, selfies, and Instagram; the 8 th transition Coladonato 2 included watching movies, fingerprint scanning, and pedestrians walking around like zombies while always on their phone; the 9 th and last transition so far included professional grade cameras, folding screens and virtual reality. If you, consumers, would actually read through all of these you will hopefully get somewhat freaked out, your phone knows everything about you, it knows all of your banking information, knows who you talk to, knows where you work, where you live, what you look like, what you talk like, and with complete honesty you phone could turn you into an AI robot with how much information that it contains. Your phone is literally you, which is probably why people just could not put the device down. Though, putting down the device is not the problem, the problem is that you cell phone contains all of the users personal everything and is barely advertised, all that is advertised are large signs that state things like : new is Be Bold, Be direct, Believe in something better, Better sound through research, Can you hear me now, Choose Freedom, Do you like this, Droid Does, Empowering People, Expanding Possibilities, Get more out of now, Go Places, Google Things, Life Gaille, 1). These are actual phone advertisements, and as you can see they are simple and easy, so easy that the robots behind the led touch screens are able to comprehend it. Even if these slogans do work the misinform consumers on the actual risks of the phone, and if you honestly look into the sights and the commercials the say a word about people always listening, other people always watching, or how people can hack you phone to get all of you bank info and all of your other info also and a simple push of a button, these need to start inform consumers soon because if they they will, in deed, have a lawsuit on their hands. Though the smartphones have their problems alone, the problem is not just them alone, the main problem is with the voice command part of the phone (Seri, Alexa, hey These different programs are constantly running on your phone and listening to your Coladonato 3 conversations. The most frightening aspect of this issue is that it only the that made the phone that are listening, but, hackers are also eavesdropping in on the conservations. A motherboard.vice.com writer stated time you use your voice command, your phone is listening carefully. And occasionally, it might whisper what you said to a total stranger on the internet. When you use the voice recognition software on your smartphone (like Siri on the iPhone) all of your voice commands are recorded and retained by the software manufacturer (like Apple, Samsung, or Google). You might have already known this, but what you probably realize is that those voice files just sitting on servers somewhere in Silicon Valley; some of them are being listened to by total strangers on the internet. In fact, I listened to almost 200 of them (Gaille 1) The fact that the voice clips are so readily available shows how much these programs invade the problems of their users, and even though some of these users know that it may be doing that these programs are doing this they still chose to use them because of how much easier it is to just say then to press a few buttons, but they should also realize that pushing a few buttons is easer then dealing with identity theft because someone heard you say your social security number over the phone while talking to your bank. the good thing is that this problem is easy to fix, you just go into the settings and disable the voice command program. Though, not everything is that easy to turn off, people can see your location status live, and you just turn off your phone. big deal, then just throw away the SIM card, or power the darn thing off until you cover up, right? Wrong, and wrong again! Getting rid of the SIM card do any good, because Stingray phone trackers and fake cell towers will prey on your identifiers in no time, exposing your general location to the authorities. Likewise, turning off your phone might actually do the trick, unless among the 10,000 or so unlucky ones that have their devices infected by a fun specimen of Android Coladonato 4 malware called It spoofs an authentic shutdown animation and makes your phone appear wide asleep. In reality, still very much on and easily traceable. Thus, ditching your battery remains the only surefire way of hiding your tracks. No electricity source means no way of powering any of its components, and simple, reliable physics! But if you want to be one of those posh outlaws that rock a new Galaxy or iPhone, you ought to know how this goes. The non-removable back makes disposing the battery impossible! The solution? Get the LG G5 it has the premium looks and the removable battery, making it a suitable choice for your ambitions. Just tell anybody about your future plans, (Luis D, 1), you have to take apart your phone and disable your battery to stop people from seeing your location, which is something that barely any one knows anymore. Smartphone necessarily need to stop putting out voice command programs, but, they should inform the users of the things that intrude on the personal life. Or, the users should bring it to the attention. These problems are on the company but also on the user. As a user you are in charge of telling the company what they are doing wrong, and what you like about their product and by not doing so you are basically telling them that ok. Take action and make a difference, you must be the change in the world, stand up to the man or the man will bring you down. Work cited Coladonato 5 D, Luis. Did you know removing your battery is the only sure way to prevent it from being  Phone Arena. N.p., 06 June 2016. Web. 22 Apr. 2017. Remember Snake, flip phones and the Nokia  The Telegraph. Telegraph Media Group, 06 Sept. 2016. Web. 22 Apr. 2017. Gaille, Brandon. 36 Examples of Catchy Cell Phone Slogans and  BrandonGaille.com. N.p., 26 Oct. 2016. Web. 22 Apr. 2017. ROGERS, KALEIGH. Strangers on the Internet Are Listening to Phone Voice  Motherboard. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Apr. 2017. Hill, Simon. Is your smartphone listening to everything you say? We asked the  Digital Trends. N.p., 15 Jan. 2017. Web. 22 Apr. 2017. Coladonato 6 Coladonato 7 Coladonato 8 Coladonato 9 Coladonato 10 Coladonato 11 Coladonato 12 Coladonato 13 Coladonato 14 Coladonato 15