Sharoupim 1 Pavly Sharoupim Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.910 29 April 2017 Phones have become a very personalized belonging of every person. It contains all of the sensitive data such as locations, passwords, credit and debit cards, photos, videos, contacts, and much more. Since, personalized according to our needs, expected to be considered as private belongings that be looked into without proper permissions. Moreover, this information expected, or supposed, to be sent to anyone, or perhaps any group. The hard truth is that this information is actually being sent to anonymous groups of people and for different agendas. A study conducted by Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Carnegie Mellon University students concluded that applications that we might use daily actually send sensitive data such as personal information and locations to third-party websites without the permission (Zang et al.). However, ISP or Internet Service Providers can help minimize, or even stop, the impact on our devices and violations to privacies that to contemporary technological developments, is almost constantly on the line of (Georgieva). Although applications can get deep into phones and steal sensitive information, service providers such as AT&T and Verizon can help raise awareness of this issue and educate users on how to spot these applications, know what information they can acquire, and stop them. This way, service providers will be able to make the internet a more secure platform for all devices and their users. As mentioned previously, a research conducted by Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Carnegie Mellon University students concluded that applications such as Viber, Groupon, Sharoupim 2 MyFitnessPal, Expedia, Priceline, Pinterest, and others send sensitive information to third-party websites, usually advertising agencies, in order to define your interests and show the consumer related ads that they might have interest in (Zang et al.). However, other sites might use this information to blackmail the consumer. Service providers such as Verizon and AT&T can help with raising consumer awareness against third-party privacy violations. The internet, which is the medium the domains use, is actually a service provided by and internet service provider. An internet service provider is a company anyone who wants to access the internet must ultimately work (Strickland). However, since these providers exactly own the internet, they lay hands on these domains or control their bandwidths, but that mean that they have an influence on their audience. For instance, Verizon Wireless has around 140 million subscribers and AT&T has around 128 million subscribers in the United States (Dano). If they, alongside other service providers such as T-Mobile and Sprint, decide to launch a campaign against these domains, they can reach a theoretical number of audience of 390 million subscribers. To help spread the message, they can inform their audience about the uncontrollable privacy violations using Short Message Service or SMS. This method is highly used between individuals at no additional costs for almost all plans offered by service providers. In this short message, they can include warnings about highly suspicious applications that may be sending sensitive information to other domains. They could also include short messages with either detailed or shortened methods of securing oneself from unknowingly giving permissions to certain applications to send sensitive information to third-party domains. Another way they could help is by assigning skillful developers to develop an application that gives a score out of 100 about how secure a phone or an application may be and how to further improve security on a Sharoupim 3 phone. Finally, they can dedicate a part of their respective showrooms around the States for educating customers to protect their own phones from getting hacked or wired and urge costumers to inform their friends and families about how to protect their phones too. This technique, called word of mouth or WOM, is shown to be effective in raising social awareness as the number of informed individuals increases (Shariatpanahi et al.). Protecting consumers from unwanted privacy violations will help service providers in maintaining a platform free from any hacks or violations. Phones have become essential for every person, whether for business purposes or just for fun. However, the technology packed into that average display makes it easy for applications to send sensitive data to third-party anonymous websites without your permission. Service providers such as AT&T and Verizon can help by reaching and educating more than 300 million individuals using their free services such as SMS or educating them in person in any of their respective showrooms around the States. This way, the service providers will be able to provide a secure platform for their costumers to use all the different functions the internet has to offer. Sharoupim 4 Works Cited Dano, Mike. Verizon, AT&T, T-Mobile, Sprint and More Stacked Up in Q4 2015: The Top 8 FierceWireless, 1 March 2016, http://www.fiercewireless.com/special- report/how-verizon-at-t-t-mobile-sprint-and-more-stacked-up-q4-2015-top-8-carriers. Accessed 29 April 2017. Georgieva, Ilina. The Right to Privacy under Fire Foreign Surveillance under the NSA and the GCHQ and Its Compatibility with Art. 17 ICCPR and Art. 8 ECHR. Utrecht Journal of International and European Law. 31(80), p.104-130 Shariatpanahi, Seyad Peyman; Jafari, Afshin; Sadeghipour, Maryam; Azadeh-Fard, Nasibeh; Majizadeh-a, Keivan; Farahmand, Leila; Ansari, Alireza Madjid. the Effectiveness of Disease Awareness Programs: Evidence from Google Trends Data for the World Awareness ScienceDirect, 29 April 2017, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S073658531730014X. Accessed 29 April 2017. Strickland, Jonathan. Owns the HowStuffWorks, http://computer.howstuffworks.com/internet/basics/who-owns-internet1.htm. Accessed 29 April 2017. Zang, Jinyan; Dummit, Krysta; Graves, James; Lisker, Paul; Sweeney, Latanya. Knows What About Me? A Survey of Behind the Scenes Personal Data Sharing to Third Parties by Mobile TechScience. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:nRUUKzOShNUJ:techscience.o rg/a/2015103001/+&cd=2&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us. Accessed 29 April 2017