Weldon 1 John Weldon Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.910S17 21 April 2017 Owning the Topic of Gun Control On April 16, 2017, Robert Godwin Sr. was the victim of a publicly-broadcasted shooting over Facebook Live. This atrocity not only marks the 4,432nd shooting-related death in the United States this year (January 1-April 16), but also epitomizes the ever-growing issue of gun violence in this country Violence Archive According to a Gun Violence Archive report, 367 people were killed, and an additional 1,314 were injured in mass shootings alone in the year 2015 Summary A mass shooting is the shooting or killing of four or more people at a specific time and location. In addition to these mass shooting events, there have been tens-of-thousands of firearm-related incidents in the United States this year. These incidents, ranging from unintentional firearm discharges to premeditated murders, all factor into this category. The scary thing is, these numbers only continue to rise with respect to time. When comparing shooting-related statistics between 2015 and 2016, ten other categories--which include overall firearm-related deaths, number of teens injured or killed, and much more--experienced an increase in value Summary These increased number of mass shootings--and shootings in general--over recent years has sparked a national debate over current gun control laws and regulations in the United States. On the liberal side of the argument, current gun control laws and regulations are viewed as unreliable and dangerous to a safety and well-being. Organizations like the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence (CSVG), which Weldon 2 favor stricter gun control laws and regulations, support a ban on assault weapons, universal background checks, and much more. On the conservative side of the argument, current gun control laws and regulations are viewed as constitutional and necessary for self-defense. Organizations like the National Rifle Association (NRA), which favor current gun control laws and regulations, support firearm and marksman training, concealed handgun permits, and much more. In fact, the NRA intends to propose legislative measures that call for an armed police officer at every school in the United States (Rostron). Although both parties desire the same outcome, which is a reduction in overall gun violence in the United States, their approaches are completely different. Ultimately, liberals believe that a decrease in firearm possession will effectively reduce gun violence, while conservatives believe that an increase in firearm possession will effectively reduce gun violence. In relation to the previously explained shooting statistics, school shootings have been a major component in these studies. According to an Everytown report, there have been 222 school shootings in the United States since 2013 School Shootings in America Since School shootings, which involve the shooting or killing of children, should never be tolerated in this country. To resolve this issue, the presence of an armed police officer should be mandatory in every school across the United States. School-affiliated organizations like the Boy Scouts of America need to support this conservative proposition to ensure the safety and protection of their 2.5 million members Scouts of In acknowledging, supporting, and conveying the conservative ideology toward reducing overall gun violence in the United States, specifically in school-shooting incidents, the Boy Scouts of America will establish a valued trust between millions of parents; thus sparking an increase of scout-member participation nationwide. Weldon 3 Conservative ideologies toward the topic of gun control have proven effective in recent years; thus illustrating the need for armed police officers in every school across the United States. Particular school districts, however, must be addressed first and foremost. According to a Northwestern University study, researchers discovered that a higher frequency of school-shootings were directly related to the high unemployment rate of a particular area (Blad). Economic burdens, such as parental unemployment and future joblessness, are relatively valid justifications for children to become involved in violence (Blad). Children residing in areas of high unemployment are therefore more likely to become involved in school-shooting incidents; thus the admittance of armed police officers to school districts in areas of high unemployment must be prioritized. In regard to the methodology associated with firearm intervention in schools, a major conservative belief--concealed handgun possession--has proven effective in reducing gun violence. According to a six year study (2007-2013), the effects of concealed handgun permits were compared to overall murder rates in the United States. As the percentage of concealed handgun permits soared to over 130%, murder rates dramatically reduced by 22% (Bernstein). Therefore, school-administered police officers that are licensed to carry concealed handguns would ultimately reduce school-shooting statistics in the United States, due to the fact that conservative gun ideologies prove to be effective. The Boy Scouts of America is a non-profit organization designed to provide programs for young people to improve character, train to participate in citizenship, and develop personal fitness Scouts of This organization specifically targets children and young adults, and roughly 2.5 million members were recorded in the year 2015 Scouts of Ranging from Cub Scout to High Adventure Exploring programs, the Boy Scouts of America Weldon 4 provides a platform accessible to young people nationwide Scouts of Most members, as a result of their youth, attend public/private schools in the United States. In acknowledging, supporting, and conveying the conservative ideology toward reducing overall gun violence in the United States, specifically in school-shooting incidents, the Boy Scouts of America would establish a valued trust between millions of parents; thus resulting in an increased amount of scout-member participation. The conservative proposition of administering an armed police officer to every school has an overall purpose in reducing school-shooting incidents in the United States. Millions of parents of scout-members across the country would completely agree in the outcome of this proposition; however, some may not understand the methodology behind administering an armed police officer in schools. In order to establish trust between these parents, as well as parents who are contemplating the admittance of their children to this organization, the Boy Scouts of America must convey the factual and beneficial effects behind conservative gun ideologies. The first--and most important--step in conveying this information to parents is through communication. Whether communicating through social media, scout-related events, or simple conversation, the Boy Scouts of America can address the issue of school-shooting violence, and emphasize the need for an armed police officer in every school nationwide. Once the parent audience is engaged and supportive of the information conveyed, the Boy Scouts of America can even further their credibility by taking action; specifically by addressing the United States government. Other organizations, such as the American Public Health Association, have taken similar action in hopes of reducing overall gun violence in the United States (Wahowiak). With immense public support, the Boy Scouts of Weldon 5 America could help shape governmental legislation around conservative gun ideologies, and the admittance of an armed police officer in every school nationwide could become a reality. Gun violence in the United States has increased over recent years, and school shootings are a major component in these studies. Conservative methodologies toward gun laws, specifically in the proposition to administer armed police officers to schools nationwide, will effectively reduce school-shooting incidents in the United States. In acknowledging, supporting, and conveying the conservative ideology toward reducing overall gun violence in the United States, specifically in school-shooting incidents, the Boy Scouts of America will establish a valued trust between millions of parents; thus sparking an increase of scout-member participation nationwide. Weldon 6 References School Shootings in America Since 2017. Accessed 3 May 2017. Bernstein, Gun Violence  in vol. 16, no. 2, July 2015, pp. 232-246. doi:10.7710/1526-0569.1534. Accessed 3 May 2017. Blad, Evie. School Safety; Insecurity and the Rise in Gun Violence at U.S.  no. 20, 2017. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx Accessed 3 May 2017. Boy Scouts of 2017. Accessed 3 May 2017. Violence Archive Violence 20 April 2017. Accessed 20 April 2017. Summary Violence 19 April 2017, Accessed 20 April 2017. Rostron, Allen. School Shootings and the Legislative Push to Arm Teachers  University of Toledo Law no. 3, 2013, p. 439. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx Accessed 3 May 2017. Wahowiak, Lindsey. APHA: Congress Must Act on Gun  no. 6, 2016, p. 2. Weldon 7 ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx Accessed 3 May 2017.