Nicholas Chiaramonte Sabah F. Uddin Composition 1 May 2nd, 2017 Project 3 Final Gun Control Paper Just about every person has an opinion on gun control. Whether, it is fair for the citizens, or it is too dangerous for the citizens. Over our whole American history, guns have been a major topic for its citizens. From the US revolution, when Britain tried to restrict gun powder in its foreign colonies. When the Civil War kicked off, and its laws restricting African Americans from owning guns and gun powder. When Vietnam was at its height, and its strong protest that were created to end the war and bring back its soldiers. Finally, there is today, with threats from outside the us, and mass shootings. Guns are a major topic for our nation and will always be for almost every nation. This is no light topic, with no clear answer. However complicated it might be, like to wage my opinion on the matter and continue the discussion to help resolve our many issues in this great nation we call America. The purpose of this paper is to list pros and cons on the gun control laws drafted for our major cities, and discus if they are too harsh or not harsh enough. Before getting into the pros and cons, overall crime is in a current major decline everywhere in the US. Crime has been in decline since Obama was elected in 2008 and has been in a steady decline ever since. Current laws are at work and are making a difference by keeping more people safe, with that said here are some pros and cons on the current issues with our gun control laws. There was a study conducted in 2010 on 170 cities (Lott John). Now, this study has shown that the stronger gun laws in cities are more likely to have high crime rate. Areas like Chicago and Detroit, where crime is higher than average, have stricter gun control laws. The statistics show that they are correlated with each other. This means that if a city has strict gun control laws, it will most likely have more crime rate. Some major cons and flaws with this study are, the stats show that higher populations are also correlated with crime. Those big cities are going to have higher crime than the medium and smaller cities. Also, all those big cities have those stricter laws because there was crime to begin with, so having those laws could have brought crime down, because they are high populated it have been enough to make a difference to see for a low populated city. One major Argument from people who are for gun control is that as an American they have the right to The Second Amendment states well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be (U.S. Constitution. Amend. II). Just that one sentence gives every person the right to own a gun. Not even the whole sentence is needed though. The first half talks about each can have their own militia, we know them as the state guard. The second half gives us the right and this sentence is a major argument on current gun control and how it could be too strict. The huge con with this argument is that the Constitution is old. Technically speaking it is so old that the federal government is allowed to and maintain a and and support but never does it state the federal government can have an air force (U.S. Constitution. Art. I, Sec. 8.). Now this a problem because we are counting the air force as a part of the so is bending the rules there just as okay for bending rules for our right to own guns. Many will agree because the constitution is old and somewhat out dated so taking it literally is not how a growing supper power stays strong. There is also the debate on public safety. Are the current gun control laws in our best for public safety? There are many cases of law abiding citizens who lawfully carry firearms on their person or in their vehicles that stop crimes. There is one case where an Uber driver stopped what could have been a mass shooting, when he saw a man walking with a firearm shooting into a group of people (Chicago Sun Times). This gets into whether if citizens should be policing. Having cases like these show how if improving and multiplying police forces or creating a more efficient method for police to act faster can stop these cases where citizens are in danger and have to protect their selves. If we can safely be more reliant on police action, people would be less inclined to own guns which would let gun control laws become more strict. Having a reliant government and in return a reliant police force would greatly reduce the need for the populous to own firearms thus reducing crime rate all over. Lastly gun control laws do not look into other things like accidents or people with mental problems. One of the major deaths from a firearm is from miss use of the weapon. Accidents yearlong happen where kids got a hold of the gun or it was misused by someone not well informed on the weapons and lack of knowledge of leaving the gun loaded around a home. These can be easily avoided from more education on firearm safety and through redrafted laws on background checks and heavily restricting mentally ill people. Problems with current gun control is that they are too strict in the wrong categories. Lots of the California laws restrict magazine capacity and attachments for the gun to make it harder to shoot and with less bullets but that does not help people who are mentally ill or ignorant people who improperly store the weapons (California Firearm Laws). Historically, the US has not been helpful with people who are mentally ill, majority get sent to jail and never get any help their entire life. That is a huge problem and needs to be changed. In conclusion, our current firearm laws are in need of an update. Current crime rate is going down, so taking action on gun control is a great course of action. If we wait till a crime spike happens it would too late and now we could easily prevent one from happening in the future. This is no light topic and it should be a heavily debated topic so in the end the best result is shown. Having more opinions on the topic is healthy for the best outcome. Both sides of the argument would agree that the best interest is for the safety of others and for crime rate to drop. So now is the time to start changing these things to better the future of the citizens in those cities. Citations Lott, John R. How to Test the Effects of Gun  More Guns, Less Crime Understanding Crime and Gun Control Laws. Chicago, IL: U of Chicago, 2013. 22-37. Print. Ser. 3. Sharmila, Devi. The Long Road to Gun Control in  Lancet (London, England). U.S. National Library of Medicine, 16 July 2016. Web. Kopel, David B. The Great Gun Control War of the 20th Century - And Its Lessons for Gun Laws  By David B. Kopel :: SSRN. N.p., 30 May 2012. Web. McGinty, Emma E., Julia A. Wolfson, and Tara Kirk Sell. Sense or Gun Journal of Health Politics, Policy and Law. Duke University Press, print. Vol. 41, Num. 1, Pg. 3-40. Nov 13, 2015. Doj, Ca. California Firearms Laws Summary - 2016 (n.d.): 9-17. Kamala D. Harris, 2016. Web.