Ingle 1 Alexis Ingle Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.910 3 May 2017 American Sign Language Training for First Responders American Sign Language is an unspoken language that many d/Deaf and Hard of Hearing individuals use to communicate. First responders have the possibility of encountering d/Deaf and Hard of Hearing individuals in their line of work and effective communication with them is crucial, as is with any person first responders encounter. The need for first responders to take American Sign Language (ASL) classes as part of the training is high, in order to better the communication with d/Deaf and Hard of Hearing individuals. The National First Responders Organization support in first simply learning basic signs as well as typical phrases that they use in their line of work would be beneficial as it would lower, if not eliminate on some occasions, the need to wait for certified interpreters to arrive. This could also lower the cost afforded to the departments. Even more, knowing sign language would aid an officer in diffusing a chaotic situation where a d/Deaf person is present, in the event that an interpreter is not readily available at that moment. The skill would also be beneficial to first responders personally as they could use it not only at work, but in their everyday lives as well. The ability to communicate with someone, especially in a time of need, where the person is upset and confused is important. This is one reason why an ASL course should be a required part of first training. In a study done during a training workshop for improving first cultural competency when working with d/Deaf and Hard of Hearing individuals in domestic violence situations, it is stated, survivors of DV [domestic are often Ingle 2 further vulnerable due to communication (Engelman and Deardorff). Easing or eliminating these and providing first responders with an understanding of Deaf culture would lead to a decreased feeling of vulnerability and a heightened feeling of comfort for the d/Deaf or Hard of Hearing individuals in not only domestic violence situations but many other situations as well. Furthermore, sometimes when d/Deaf and Hard of Hearing people communicate with hearing people they feel as though they cannot get all the information they needed. In a study done at The Museum of Science in Boston, with d/Deaf people who communicate in various ways, the participant who communicated using only sign language said, felt like I ask a bunch of questions. I can lipread, but understand that not all Deaf people (Goss, et al.). Even though this woman is at a museum, the situations are not much different because, especially in a situation where first responders are needed, you do not want anyone left feeling as though they did not get all the information necessary, or were not able to ask the questions they wanted to ask. When dealing with a situation where first responders are necessary, everyone should have the ability to get all the information they need, whether they are injured or were just pulled over for a traffic violation. Having the ability to communicate via sign language reduces the probability of leaving d/Deaf and Hard of Hearing people feeling like they did not get all the information they wanted or needed. Overall, first responders, police officers, firefighters, paramedics etc., the first line of they are there to duties without second thought or personal regard, to serve and protect others in their time of The main and most important part of first job is to and as is stated above. In other words, first responders put the safety and well-being of others before their own, no matter how dire or miniscule the situation may be. In many instances this may mean putting their life on the Ingle 3 line. With respect to working with d/Deaf or Hard of Hearing individuals, first responders have policies and laws that they must abide by. This policy reiterates and explains the laws that protect those with hearing loss under the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Rehabilitation Act. It also lists the approved methods of communicating with d/Deaf individuals which includes, but is not limited to pen and paper, gestures, and/or a certified interpreter whom is knowledgeable about law enforcement vocabulary and is on-call 24 hours a day Policy for Law Enforcement on Communicating with People Who Are Deaf or Hard of First responders are required to be familiar with this policy and abide by it accordingly. Requiring first responders to take an ASL class as part of their training can benefit both the first responders individually as well as the departments of first responders as a whole. ASL is a skill that first responders can use at work and at home in their everyday lives as they will not just encounter d/Deaf and Hard of Hearing people at work. Also, having first responders that are familiar with ASL can reduce the need for certified interpreters, which can reduce costs for the department or city. Knowing some ASL, combined with the other allowed methods of communication listed in the policy would be more effective in communicating. Furthermore, having first responders learn sign language can decrease the negative repercussions and outcomes that might occur when working with d/Deaf people. Having an understanding of their language and culture will provide comfort for the d/Deaf person, which can help them calm down and allow for easier communication between the first responder and the d/Deaf person, thus creating better outcomes. This is the most important aspect as it is the goal and mission of first responders to keep all individuals safe and knowing some ASL would aid in allowing them to do just that. It is known that from birth to a language for learning and development is the right of every so this same right should be afforded to d/Deaf people at all times Ingle 4 (Swanick). Also, on international human people have the right to use signed (Snoddon). First responders knowing sign language would prevent this right from being violated. In order to make this change happen, ASL classes need to be provided for future and present first responders. This class could be a required portion of the academies that first responders must attend and pass prior to being hired. A class would also need to be required for current first responders, as well as follow-up and refresher courses throughout their careers. These classes can be done in person or even online and there is a high possibility of finding teachers willing to volunteer their time. In the event that a volunteer teacher cannot be found, the classes can be funded through city/governmental grants. These would be similar to grants a college student might receive, as the classes for current first responders could also be taken on a college campus, or through an online college. The National First Responders Organization could also organize fundraisers to raise money to pay for the classes and refresher courses as well. A lot of signs and information about the Deaf culture can be learned in a short amount of time. These improvements are necessary to make for the bettering of the Deaf community and for first responders. Conclusively, classes in American Sign Language need to be a part of first training. Doing so would allow better communication between first responders and d/Deaf and Hard of Hearing people, subsequently leading to less negative repercussions for both the d/Deaf or Hard of Hearing individual and the department/city. Easy communication will provide comfort and calm for the d/Deaf person as well. First knowledge of ASL and Deaf culture could also lead to fewer costs for the department or city, as the need for interpreters would decrease. First responders can also take this skill and use it in their everyday life. Simply Ingle 5 adding an American Sign Language class into the required training for first responders can make all of these improvements happen. Ingle 6 Works Cited Engelman, Alina and Julianna Deardorff. Cultural Competence Training for Law Enforcement Responding to Domestic Violence Emergencies with the Deaf and Hard of  Health Promotion Practice, vol. 17, no. 2, Mar. 2016, p. 177. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edb&AN=113031796&site=eds-live. Accessed 10 April 2017. Goss, Juli, et al. Understanding the Multilingualism and Communication of Museum Visitors Who Are D/Deaf or Hard of  Museums & Social Issues, vol. 10, no. 1, Apr. 2015, pp. 52-65. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1179/1559689314Z.00000000032. Accessed 10 April 2017. National First Responders Organization, 2014, http://www.nfro.org/mission.html. Accessed 21 April 2017. Policy for Law Enforcement on Communicating with People Who Are Deaf or Hard of 2006. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsgpr&AN=gprocn851330539&site=eds-live. Accessed 10 April 2017. Snoddon, Kristin. Equity In Education: Signed Language And The  Current Issues In Language Planning, vol. 10.3, 2009, pp. 255-271, Education Source. Accessed 28 January 2017. Swanwick, Ruth. Deaf Bimodal Bilingualism And  Language Teaching, vol. 49.1, no.1, 2016, Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Accessed 28 January 2017.