Amanda N. Brown Cat Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 04/30/2017. Social Media Addiction in Teenagers Social media has been a sensitive, debatable and controversial over the course of the years. To fully understand the purpose of this research paper it is important we know what social media is. As far as we are concerned, social media is known as the different platforms, sites and databases that are used to communicate and interact with people globally. These platforms have great impact on a psychological wellbeing due to the fact that they are linked to various psychiatric and psychological disorders, self-esteem and self-confidence level, their ability to socialize and their feelings when it comes to stepping out of their comfort zone. It is said that social media does not create problems such as: sleep deprivation, low self-esteem, psychiatric symptoms in some and depression seen in some psychiatric and psychological development; it only adds more problems to the issue. In certain aspects, this is not entirely true. Yen and Chih-Hung acknowledge that a study was made using teens divided into 4 fours: does who used social media, those that did not, teens that were involved/used drugs and those who did not. Based on the results, they saw that teens addicted with social media and drugs were diagnosed with several issues and low self-esteem. On the other hand, teens that used no social media appeared to have no problems regarding their self-love and self-confidence; they had an easier ability when it came to approaching and socializing with people than those compared to social media users et all 2011). Some started depending on what others said, how much likes they got and how many followers they got and would only post stuff based on what they thought what others would like. This is due to the fact that social media is seen as a strong influence of a response to how they act around people out of their virtual life. This research finally reaches to the conclusion that social media addiction is as damaging as drug addiction use and both have severe effects on a psychological wellbeing. There are different criteria found on social media addiction, such as: preoccupation, uncontrolled impulse, usage more than intended, tolerance, withdrawal, impairment of control, excessive time and effort spent on the Internet, and impairment of decision-making ability. Teens who battle with social media addiction sometimes struggle with depression and are not able to endure family and personal relationships. Every addiction is subsequently linked to whatever psychiatric disorder is shown and how a teen grows up (his/her environment). To further support this theory, a set of questions and psychological tests were performed to kids with divorced parents showing as a result that a missing paternal/maternal figure has a lot to do with social media usage symptons in adolescents with internet addiction: comparison with substance 2008). Teenagers with social media addiction have more severe psychiatric symptoms than those who show less interest in them. Facebook and Twitter are easily seen as a way of coping mechanism and without proper supervision or lookout for psychiatric symptoms, social media often lead to severe addiction. Social media addiction changes a perception on things and effects it has on their self-esteem because of the heavy/obscene content that can be found online. As Weinstein has noted, media is seen as a way to escape from ourselves and create a said that seems much more appealing that the real Although blogs sometimes do not seem to help teenagers positively, it helps health professionals such as psychologists understand better the issues involving their patients and it betters the diagnose when it comes to providing solutions. Over the course of recent years, social media has been a rather harsh subject of discussion for a lot people debating on whether it is safe for children. There have been cases in which social media has had fatal results on families due to the rather disturbing impact on teenagers. You see, social media for as long as I can tell has always been used to criticize teenagers (positively or negatively). Such comments or posts about someone can lead to a person believing he or she is not good enough and may lead to suicidal behavior and thoughts. Overall, teenagers fall into that pit in which they find comfortable with themselves and they eventually resort to thinking they are the problem, which is reality they are not. As to speak, living your life depending on social media will make you lack that emotional connection you should have when physically interacting with others. In other words, decreases the face-to-face communication skills. As to why social media has a big impact on teens and how it can become something dangerous for some, I think it all comes down to how each of us take things that are said to us and how we process them. Not all teens are affected by comments, posts and pictures they see on the internet. Although almost every teen in our generation has access to social media some seem non-interested on these platforms. Matter of fact, it is known that social media is a way to create someone different to your real-life person and kind of live through that and invent someone you would never dare to be in front of others. So, in conclusion, not everyone is affected by the hideous social standards of expectations different people have based on different brain-washed criteria and for some social media is the main cause for psychiatric disorders and other issues. It is important for parents and others to be pending and aware of what their tweens and teens are up to these days when it comes to social media. Because social media can have magnitude of troubles psychologically, psychiatric an emotionally speaking, it has to be treated as serious as if it were a substance abuse problem; both often leading to suicide. Works Cited Brody, Michael. teens in this age of digital Brown University Child Adolescent Behavior Letter. vol. 22, no. 12, Dec 2006. pp. 8, Education Source, Accessed Feb 5, 2017. Yen, Ju-Yu and Ko Chih-Hung. symptoms in adolescents with internet addiction: comparison with substance Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences. vol. 62, no. 1, Feb 2008, pp. 9-16, Wiley Online Library. 10.1111/j.1440-1819.2007.01770.x Gwen Schurgin and Kathleen Clarke-Pearson. Impact of Social Media on Children, Adolescents, and AAP News & Journals Gateway. Vol. 127, no. 4, April 1,2011. http://pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/127/4/800 Weinstein, Aviv and Michael Lejoyeux. Addiction or Excessive Internet The American Journal of Drug and Alcohol Abuse: Encompassing All Addictive Disorders, vol. 36, no.5, Jun 15, 2010. http://dx.doi.org/10.3109/00952990.2010.491880 Whang, Sang-Min Leo, Suijin and Geunyoung Chang. Psychological Profiles: A Behavior Sampling Analysis on Internet Cyber-psychology Behavior, vol. 6, no. 2, 2010, pp. 143-150.Mary Ann Liebert, doi: 10.1089/cyber.2009.0222 Boyd, Danah. Complicated: The Social Lives of Networked Teens. Yale University Press, London. 2014.