Student 1 Student Derisi ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Fight Like a Girl: Equality in the Military The desire to serve country is an admirable trait that not everyone in the world possesses. People in the military risk their lives every day and sacrifice their time and energy to serve their nation. According to military statistics, of January 31 st , there were close to 1.4 million people serving in the United States armed Of these 1.4 million, about 200,000 are females (Chalibi). At first glance this seems like a small fraction of the overall population, but imagine the military without all of these females. There would be less nurses, pilots, mechanics and support staff available to help in times of need. However, even though these women are an important part of the function, they often get handed the short end of the stick. There are many organizations such as The American Conservative, and War on the Rocks, who are currently bashing the idea of women in the military. These groups have written publications expressing that because these service members are women that are both mentally and physically unfit to do their jobs. This seems to not be the case. Most women in the military end up being successful, and some are even more successful than other males in the branch. Altogether women deserve more support than they are given. Gender should not be an influencing factor in deciding if someone is good enough to serve their country. If someone is able to complete their duties, and have the strength required to be in the military, then they should be able to join. In 1917, at the end of World War I, women were allowed to join the military. This Student 2 decision was an important one that changed the lives of many Americans. At first many people were hesitant to the idea. They thought that with women joining the armed forces, no one would be able to take care of the kids or their homes. Other people thought that women would just end up being useless in the military and get in everyone way. However, women proved to be important assets to the team. For example, World War II, more than 400,000 women served at home and abroad as mechanics, ambulance drivers, pilots, administrators, nurses, and in other non-combat in the United States Imagine if these women were not there, who would be taking care of the wounded or making sure everything was maintained while most of the men were out on the front line? Many of these women soldiers were killed in the line of duty fighting for their country as well. before women had the right to vote long before we even had the right to vote or own property, before America even existed, women were serving this country facing danger, risking their lives, even dressing up like men so be allowed to (Obama). This excerpt shows that these women deserve support. They have already served their country for years and should not have to deal with the skepticism and ridicule they receive from outsiders and men in the same profession. Not everyone is eligible to serve. Not everyone wants to serve, but the people who do are important. They dedicate their lives to do best for the United States. These people should be loved and appreciated, no matter what gender they are. The armed forces is a competitive profession that recruits competent service members to join their team. Two aspects of all military careers that separate the capable from the incapable are physical ability and technical ability. There are several factors that come into play when determining physical ability; factors such as body weight, height, and completion of many military-grade assessments. There are people who believe that women are both unfit Student 3 physically and mentally and think that they qualified to be in the United States military. Statistics show that of the military is in the Military This means that this 14.6% is physically and mentally fit. They have passed all of their fitness assessments and have proven capable to endure the stressful environment that they are currently in. There are different regulations that need to be met for each gender to be deemed fit. Just because males can do more pushups, or females can do more sit-ups, mean that one gender is more fit than the other. These differences emphasize the idea that the military is a place for equality to be present. These standards display that women are equally as able as men to be here. The second aspect that separates the capable from the incapable is skill. Although there are currently only about 200,000 women in the military, there were times when there were more. In World War II more than 400,000 women served. Many of these women competed against men for positions like pilots and nurses compared to general front line spots. made up approximately ninety percent of the 11,000 military women who served in Vietnam during the conflict in the 1960s and (Larson). These females ended up being more qualified than many of the men who tried for these spots. Women were naturally more caring and nurturing and ended up being a great fit for these positions. Some sources look at the nurturing qualities of women as a con that hinders there military careers, but the women involved use these natural skills to get ahead and care for their comrades. Currently, there are many social media platforms and news reports that bash the idea of women in the military. In 2013, CNN posted a report written by Jerry Boykin that discussed how putting women in combat is a dangerous experiment that may reduce the effectiveness of the military altogether. The people against the inclusion of females believe that women are unfit for the military environment despite proof showing that these women do belong. They pass the same Student 4 tests given to everyone else, they strive to help others and complete the mission, yet are still criticized based on their gender. What all of this bashing comes down to is inequality. Even though women are just as capable as completing the same tasks and assessments that men do, there is still a difference in how they are treated and what they are provided. Most equipment in the military is created to fit a men rather than a woman and although that is sensible, based on the fact that the majority of people in the military are males, there are still plenty of females who are forced to use and wear equipment that simply does not fit them. Sara Ohlms was a women who was in the military who tried to address these issues to one of her cadre, Ohlms pointed these problems out, she was told, wanted to join why should we change for (H, Christina). The women who risk their lives to serve their country deserve way more than they get. They deserve equality. Another time when women were given unequal treatment was when Tammy Duckworth was treated. Tammy was the first female double amputee in Iraq and when she was at a hospital getting taken care of, she was given a male that included clothes and hygiene equipment. In an organization that has been open to men and women for so long, there should be ample supplies and equipment available to treat both genders equally. Women should not be receiving the short end of the stick at all, especially when it comes down to treatment after a surgery. Even though progress has been made, there is still more work to do. Respect continues to be an issue that everyone has to deal with whether at work, around family, or even with friends. There is a line that separates respect from disrespect and a miniscule boundary that is easy to accidentally cross. With all of the disrespect that women have been facing in the military it is surprising that this is still a major issue. If these women continue to be bashed and talked down upon there is a good chance that the number of women joining the military could drop, Student 5 meaning that there will be less nurses, mechanics, and pilots to serve. In order to keep these women and to recruit more women, something has to change. People need to stop complaining and start supporting the women who fight for the freedom of the United States. These women are equally as capable as men, physically, mentally, and technically, and fill many important positions in the military. Without them, the military would be struggling to complete their tasks and support themselves. There would be less people emotionally invested in caring for their people and the people around them. The military is a force meant to unite and support its country, so it would be very detrimental for the armed forces to continue to be divided based on gender. These people serve our country and they should be supported no matter what. (Word Count: 1,508). Student 6 Works Cited: Boykin, Jerry. Women in Combat a Dangerous  CNN. Cable News Network, 26 Jan. 2013. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Chalabi, Mona. What Percentage Of Americans Have Served In The  FiveThirtyEight. FiveThirtyEight, 25 May 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. H, Christina, Dustin Koski, David Christopher Bell, Tom Reimann, and Chris Bucholz. 5 Shockingly Outdated Problems Women in the Military  Cracked.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Larson, Jennifer. 12 Interesting Facts About Military  TravelNursing. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Obama, Michelle. Obama - Speech Honoring the Role of Women in the Michelle Obama - Speech Honoring the Role of Women in the Military, 18 Nov. 2009, www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/michelleobamacelebratingmilitarywomen.htm. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. Women in the United States  (2008): n. pag. History.org. Web. Women in the Military  Statistic Brain. Statistic Brain, 02 Sept. 2016. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.