Munim 1 Student: Bader Munim Instructor: Anastasia J. Khawaja Class: Composition I Date: April 30, 2017 Impacts of Immigration on the United States The Impact of Immigration on the United States society was always a point of discussion among the people and immigration is not a new concept for most of the American people because this country has an enormous number of an immigrant from all over the world. These immigrants had many different reasons for left their countries of origin. Most people have migrated to the U.S for a social, economic and political opportunity and others are refugees because they had a war in their countries of origin. Many of these people believed that the United States is the best country to go because there are more freedom, protection, and benefits. In the history of the US, the government itself introduced the policy of inviting people to live here by giving relaxation in immigration policies. In a modern nuclear world, where non-state actors are playing a significant role, and there is a question of immigration. Has immigration had a good or adverse impact on the U.S? This trending question will be answered in the light of historical events and the motivations of people behind the immigration. Finally, with some facts, it will prove that the immigration always has real impacts in the US society. In the history of the immigration in the United States, there are two significant periods. The first one is the era when people were forced to come to the US and work there as slaves. The second one is the era of independence and specifically Ellis Island when people were warmly welcome in the United States by the government and people. Peter wrote in his book that over 12 million people came to the United States from 1892 to 1954 (Coan 43-45). Before the immigration through Ellis Island immigrants had fight for their independence, especially black Munim 2 people must get themselves free from the chains of slavery. So, after that time, slavery ended in the United States, and no slave motivation remains behind the process of immigration. Many People from all over the world migrated to the United States after the opening of Ellis Island. Next point of the history is the modern era of the 19th century when motivation behind the immigration was changing. There it is, it was the start of positivity in immigration. Discussion proves that unlike slavery people were now coming to the US in search of work and opportunities. Experiences from the book A Better Life: New Immigrants in Their Own Words from Ellis Island to the of Peter shows that some people even bring their families with them and some who were mainly from England saved their wages and went back to their families after some time. A historical evidence of positive impact of immigration in the US can be observed in 1954, according to an article written by Charles Hirschman Impact of Immigration in the US Society: Looking Backward to the Future Asians came to the United States after the 1960s. This includes a high number of immigrants from India, Philippines, Korea, etc. An interesting twist in this time happened when the United States due to ongoing Cold War with USSR, preferred professional people as immigrants, which includes Doctors, nurses, and scientists. These things show that the US has her interests in accepting the immigrants. This was the immigration of the 20th century as presented by Charles in his article (Charles 2-3). These days most of the people living in the US are directly or indirectly immigrants. legal immigration to the United States has fluctuated from 700,000 to 1,000,000 new permanent residents over the past few years, but with an upward drift that is evident from a decade perspective (U.S. Department of Homeland Security Charles explained the change of motive and its impact on the US society here and added new motives. Educational Munim 3 opportunities that are given by the US government to the students of developing countries such as Asian or African regions. He wrote that these permanent immigrants in 21st century gain the status of permanent residency by changing family status or work status (4-5). This would help growing educated and skilled population in the US. Aristide R. Zolberg in his book Nation by Design: Immigration Policy in the Fashioning of describe a whole a new approach to the immigration in the United States, he wrote that the government of the United States had designed the nation by selecting immigrants with a particular skill set. Then he gave an example of political, social and economic impacts of immigrants in the US and how these aspects are positively affecting the United States. The US is accepting refugees from war-torn areas that make the US a savior in the eyes of the world. The US society is socially diverse, people from different areas are living here that makes a society that does not exist anywhere in the world. This is the beauty of immigration. These are visible positive impacts of immigration. The nation is a nation by design (Zolberg, 400-475). Robert Shapiro in his article Impact of Immigration and Immigration Reform on the Wages of American He wrote a careful review shows that high levels of immigration have not slowed overall wage gains by average, native-born American workers. Most studies suggest that recent waves of new immigrants are associated with increases in the average wage of native-born Americans in the short-run and with even larger increases in the long term as capital investment rises to take account of the huge number of (Shapiro 1). Other impacts were that immigrants provide a labor force to American countries, they start a new business, and many of them were having some skills in hands. So, according to researchers, throughout the history, economically immigrants had a good impact on the US. Munim 4 Portes Alejandro in his book America: A beautifully explained various aspects of immigrants in the United States, he specifically concentrated on the concept of cultural, religious and social impacts and this describes the conversion of academic discussion in different aspects of immigration. People from all over the world come to the United States and live their new lives in a significant change in numbers of immigrants occurred in 21st century as explained above, So the United States is a land of diversity and free will. Religious harmony can be seen in most parts. Intercultural marriages are a part of this positivity in American society as elaborated by Alejandro it by saying that is what makes (Portes 2014). Fix has written about some of the negative impacts that the US is facing by having so many immigrants on its land. He discussed these in his book the Future: US Immigrant Integration Official records show that there are many unregistered populations living in the United States most of them have come from neighboring states, but many belong to far away states. These immigrants are a burden on the US economy and the society too. There is also a speculation of overpopulation and the issue of resource distribution in future, but it has not happened yet (Fix, 20-25). In the Conclusion, if we compare the positive and negative aspects of immigration in the light of history and arguments of well-known authors it is clear that there are not many negative impacts of immigration on the United States. Even if we try to find negativity in history, there are less negative incidents related to immigrants. On the other hand, immigrants are clearly behaving as loyal citizens of United States and working as hard as a native American. The United States has indeed designed a nation where the base of happiness and development is immigration. So, by these facts and figures, it is proved that immigration is positive for the US society. Munim 5 Works Cited Coan, M, Peter. a Better Life: New Immigrants in Their Own Words from Ellis Island to the Prometheus Books, 2011, pp. 43-45. Charles, Hirschman. Impact of Immigration on American Society: Looking Backward to the Future Europaische Revue, 2007, pp. 2-5. Fix, Michael. the Future: US Immigrant Integration Migration Policy Institute, Washington, DC, 2007. Portes, Alejandro. Rumbaut. America: A University of California Press, 4TH edition 2014. Shapiro, Robert. Impact of Immigration and Immigration Reform on the Wages of American New Policy Institute. 2010, pp. 1. Zolberg, R, Aristide. A Nation by Design. Policy in the Fashioning of Harvard University Press, 2006.