Corrinne Warnke Ashley Tisdale Composition 1 1 March 2017 Nudity in Art Michelangelo is a famous artists that many people respect because his art shows figures in the nude it has been constantly censored and controversial. Artists have been censored all throughout history, especially when the artwork is dealing with nudity. The idea of nudity in art still remains very controversial today and the debate continues on whether it should or should not be censored with the majority of people still viewing it as something that should still be censored. Since the the views towards nudity in art have not changed significantly due to some mindsets in dealing with nudity which is that it is inappropriate and because of the different styles that are associated with different cultures; however some people argue nudity in art should be allowed because it is more of a matter of free speech rather than something they deem inappropriate. Many first instinct when they think of art dealing with the subject matter of nudity is that nudity in art is inappropriate due to younger viewers seeing the images and the sexualization of the human body through pornography. Nudity in art should not be problematic because people go to art museums they expect to see the female nude. The female body presented in classical art is not expected to give way to arousal or (Eck, 618). This shows that people believe nudity in art is not supposed to cause arousal, however depending on the age of the viewer and our societies over sexualization of the human form these images may cause arousal causing viewers to view these images as inappropriate. Also many people believe nudity in art has always been a significant problem, nude in art has always been, unsurprisingly, a problematic signifier. Its evident lack of concealment made it an obvious choice for the iconographic representation of According to Lilley, despite its ability eloquently to represent a wide variety of concepts, the discourse of sex has never been far from the surface of its (Lilley, .57). This shows that many people are uncomfortable with nudity in art because the idea of sex seems to never be far from the surface of the ideas of the images. Therefore, nudity in art has always seemed to cause some discomfort due to naked image seeming inappropriate based on age or mindset of the viewer and causing arousal which also make people uncomfortable. This leads us to the idea that nudity in art is inappropriate. Another reason many people view nudity in art as inappropriate is due to the shift in cultural styles when dealing with images of nudity. This can cause people to be viewing an image they feel is not in their frame of reference when dealing with art that contains nudity, which may cause them to become uncomfortable. Art may be considered inappropriate due to a shift in culture, like and were not uncommon when White writers described and interpreted African American art. These works were typically described as a feeble attempt to emulate White art or as primitive (Bey). This shows that as these artists were trying to return to their cultural roots, their artwork that contained nudity were scrutinized and deemed inappropriate just because they did not follow traditions of european art that contained nudity. This argument that their art is not inappropriate due to a shift in culture helps lead us to the idea that nudity in art is an aspect of freedom of speech. However the discussion on nudity in art seems to be slowly shifting because many people view the idea of nudity in art as an aspect of freedom of speech. This is shown in a court case, can be sued in France for removing a account after he posted an image of a 19th-century painting of a genitalia, a Paris court has (Beale). Due to this many people believe that nudity in art should not be censored because it is a basic right for people in many countries to have freedom of speech. Major social media platforms often have guidelines for what can and cannot be posted, but due to the freedom of speech these guidelines have been challenged. This may lead to the shifting idea that nudity in artwork is an aspect of free speech and therefore cannot be censored without consequences. This challenges many ideas on whether it should be censored or that it is inappropriate because they also often believe in free speech as well. In conclusion our views of nudity in art have not changed significantly since the due to the idea that nudity is inappropriate and the idea that people are uncomfortable when the images are painted in a different style from cultures they are not familiar with and therefore they deem the images However, there is hope that these views will shift as people assert that is their right to display these images due to freedom of speech and due to this nudity in art will be a more acceoted form of expression Works Cited Beale, Charlotte. Facebook in Landmark Censorship Case after Banning French User Who Posted Naked  The Independent. Independent Digital News and Media, 13 Feb. 2016. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/facebook-faces-trial-in-france-over- nudity-censorship-case-a6871791.html Bey, Sharif. Naked Bodies and Nasty Pictures: Decoding Sex Scripts in Preadolescence, Re-examining Normative Nudity through Art  Studies In Art Education 52.3 (2011): 196-212. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Eck, Beth A. Nudity and Framing: Classifying Art, Pornography, Information, and Sociological Forum 16.4 (2001): 603-32. JSTOR Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Lilley, Ed. Art, Fashion, and the Nude: A Nineteenth-century  Fashion Theory: The Journal of Dress, Body & Culture 5.1 (2001): 57-77. Art, Fashion, and the Nude: A Nineteenth-century Realignment. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.