Student 1 Student Professor Stephanie Derisi ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Say to GMOs With a rapidly growing population and global climate changes, world hunger and food security have been and will continue to be a major problem. According to the World Food Programme, 795 million people (1 in 9 people) go to bed every night with an empty stomach, while 1 in 3 people suffer from malnutrition World Hunger, Poverty Facts, Statistics ). However, genetic engineering offers a solution to decrease the impact of these big problems in developing countries - genetic engineers and agriculture scientists have developed innovative ways of substantially increasing adequate crop yield while creating strains of crops with health benefits and an abundance of nutrients through genetic modification in plants. Genetically modified organisms are organisms whose genes have been modified through the process of artificially inserting another species DNA into them, to obtain a desired trait (Kamthan et al). Most processed foods that are eaten today are made with some kind of GM crops the most common being soybeans, corn, cotton, and canola. GMOs have the potential to be beneficial to our health, yet there is a false and widespread misconception that consuming can put health at serious risk. Consumer advocates (like Jeffrey Smith of the Institute for Responsible Technology) and environmental organizations (like Greenpeace), have ran fear-based campaigns through the media to gain support and funding to obstruct perception of GMOs and hinder the introduction of GMOs into our food market. Contrastingly, leading experts of the National Academy of Science found through a broad study that there is no Student 2 evidence that suggests any difference of health risks between commercialized GM crops and conventionally bred crops (National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine). Many of these scientists support organizations such as the Allow Golden Rice Now! campaign and have signed online petitions that promote GMOs and counter the false claims that anti-GMO groups advertise to the public. However, this has not been enough support to make change happen at the rate that it should be; thousands of people around the world are suffering every day from illnesses that could have been avoided through the introduction of GM crops, and it is up to the support of the people to spread the truth and bring about change in this complex and misunderstood issue. Therefore, it is highly imperative to support GMOs because not only are GMO plants scientifically proven to be safe to consume, but GMOs have the potential to benefit health and save the lives of millions of people suffering from micronutrient deficiencies, such as Vitamin-A Deficiency (VAD). One fact that everyone should realize - regardless of their opinion on the issue is that the process of genetic modification between organisms is not a new concept. Even though genetic modification seems like a novel and risky process, humans have been altering the genetic makeup of plants for tens of thousands of years (Freedman). Genetic modifications in plants incessantly occur in nature through traditional crossbreeding methods; humans would keep the seeds of the best crops and replant them again to obtain the bigger, tastier, and longer lasting results (Ackerman). However, obtaining the desired traits of plants through this method can be inconsistent, and there is no guarantee that the desired results will come up within one generation; it may take multiple generations of breeding to get the desired traits because there are thousands of gene selections being crossbred. Contrastingly, the process of using genetic engineering has the advantage of isolating and transferring a specific gene from an organism of a Student 3 different species into the plant, and achieving the desired trait within only one generation (Freedman). This method is proven to be more efficient and beneficial in creating GMO plants with higher contents of nutrients or plants that can produce their own pesticide while remaining herbicide tolerant (Smith). Dr. Robert Goldberg, plant molecular biologist, told Scientific American that, know where the gene goes and can measure the activity of every single gene around it. We can show exactly which changes occur and which (Freedman). Genetic modification allows us to identify and control what kinds of traits and nutritional values are showing up in the plants as well as enhance the quality of the plants and foods that everyone consumes. In addition, skeptics and many anti-GMO consumer advocates, such as Jeffrey Smith, fear that there has not been enough long-term GMO tests done on GMO effects to be considered safe, and some health effects of consuming include allergic reactions, liver problems, reproductive problems, infant immortality, proliferate cell growth, disease, and death (Smith). However, in May of 2012, a leading panel of scientists and experts of the National Academy of Science reported that they no substantiated evidence that foods from GM crops were less safe than foods from non-GM (Lynas). The committee commenced the report by reviewing literature (more than 900 research and other publications), heard from 80 diverse speakers, 15 webinars, and read more than 700 comments from members of the Engineered Crops: Experiences and In the published report, titled Genetically Engineered Crops: Experiences and Prospects, the committee compared disease reports from both the United States and Canada (where GM crops have been consumed since to those reported from the UK and Western Europe (where GM crops rarely consumed). The report stated that there is no evidence that suggests there are differences in health risks to Student 4 human health between GM crops and conventionally-bred crops from comparing these disease reports (Weise). Numerous distinguished orgaizations, such as the World Health Organization and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) decided to approve safety because of the principle that contain a nutritional content that is substantially equivalent to its non-GMO counterpart What Are We ). Thus, no further toxicology or safety testing is required since the GM version is essentially the same as its traditional counterpart. Although many people may find it surprising that GMOs are just as healthy and made of the same exact contents as their traditionally-bred counterparts, the reality is that GM products are the most researched and tested agricultural products in history. Since there is still a common fear of GMOs which persists throughout the world, genetic engineers are currently working on getting the approval for new GM foods that will benefit health in order to counter the false misconceptions and shift the views in order to gain more support and awareness. Some of these GM foods include cancer-fighting pink pineapples, purple tomatoes that lower the risk of getting cardiovascular disease and cancer, and soybean, canola and sunflower oils that have fewer saturated fats and more Omega-3 fatty acids (Jalonick). Vitamin A Deficiency (VAD) is considered to be one of the most harmful forms of malnutrition in the developing world because rice is the staple food source for most people, but rice lacks Vitamin A. VAD can cause blindness, limit growth, and weaken the immune system, which increasing chances obtaining infectious diseases. In 1999, a GM form of rice, called was created, which produced in the rice grain. The human body converts into Vitamin A. The most advanced version of Golden Rice produced more than enough amounts of which would provide adequate levels of Vitamin A. In 2012, the World Health Organization reported that about million preschool children are affected Student 5 by VAD, and that providing those children with Vitamin A could prevent about a third of all under-five deaths, which amounts to up to 2.7 million children that could be saved from dying (Mayer). Greenpeace is the independent campaigning organization that uses peaceful protest to expose global environmental problems and promote according to their website Greenpeace stands against and particularly the Golden Rice Project. Greenpeace alone spends $7 million every year to obstruct In comparison, it took $2.6 million over ten years to create Golden Rice (Bohanec). All the time, money, and effort spent on impeding the views of GMOs could have been spent on the production and distribution of Golden Rice, which could be saving millions of lives. Despite the fact that have been scientifically proven to be safe and can potentially offer health benefits and solutions to the VAD epidemic, the natural follow-up question would be, why are GM crops not being used to their full In truth, the majority of the public believes that GMOs are not safe because anti-GMO activists and groups have negatively influenced their view on GMOs through their scare-based campaigns. Interestingly, there was, Pew Center poll in 2015 which found that only 37 percent of U.S. adults thought GM foods were safe, whereas 88 percent of scientists believed GM foods were safe. This was the largest opinion gap than on any other issue between the public and (Funk and Rainie). This statistic shows how drastically two-sided this debate over GMO safety currently stands in America. Several anti-GMO activists like Jeffrey Smith, have started anti-GMO campaigns, written books, produced documentaries, appeared on shows like Dr. Oz and created other forms of propaganda which have influenced perception of negatively. Greenpeace also believes that are dangerous and has gone out of their way to scare raise money for their as Richard Roberts, chief scientific officer of New England BioLabs, Student 6 wrote in a letter to Greenpeace. This letter was Greenpeace to end its opposition to and was signed by over 120 Nobel Laureates (Achenbach). Currently, GMOs and Golden Rice are prohibited to be used in many countries, including the developing countries - which could potentially be benefitting from Golden Rice the most. This is because we are told from these anti-GMO advocates that GMOs will do more harm than good, which could not be farther away from the truth. The most effective way one can help is by spreading awareness and becoming involved. One can use media by sharing their thoughts and sharing campaign sites, by signing online petitions, or by making a donation to allowgoldenrice.org to support the travel, media communications, website management and printing. The more support the effort has, the more pressure Greenpeace and their allies will face to change their policy on Golden Rice and views on GMOs. Therefore, if people were more aware of the truth on GMO safety, most would likely be surprised to realize that GMO plants are not only scientifically proven to be safe, but beneficial to health, and have the potential to save millions of human lives that suffer from malnutrition and nutrient deficiencies. Anti-GMO advocates like Jeffrey Smith and Greenpeace have ran scare-based campaigns that have tarnished the opinion of GMOs. Consequently, many people have become fearful of GMOs because of the rumored health threats they possess, when that actually could not be farther away from the truth. What people know is that supporting GMOs means supporting the solution that could be saving the lives of millions of children and pregnant women every year from VAD a disease that could have been preventable with the introduction of Golden Rice. This is why it is imperative for everyone to rethink how they feel about - the people who think they are doing a good thing by opposing GMOs are actually slowing its deployment to the people who could use it most. Student 7 Greenpeace has blocked Golden Rice using public pressure, and that is the only way they will be convinced to change their position and make an exception for Golden Rice. This issue is complex and misunderstood, but people must realize that this is the technology and the solution to end these huge world problems now it is up to individuals to step up and let positive change happen. (WC: 1829) Student 8 Works Cited  Greenpeace USA. Greenpeace USA, n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Achenbach, Joel. Nobel laureates sign letter blasting Greenpeace over 2016. PDF File. Ackerman, Jennifer. Altered Food, GMOs, Genetically Modified  National Geographic. National Geographic, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Allow Golden Rice  Allow Golden Rice Now. Allowgoldenricenow.org, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Freedman, David H. The Truth about Genetically Modified  Scientific American. Scientific American, 08 Aug. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017 Funk, Cary, and Lee Rainie. Public and Views on Science and  Pew Research Center: Internet, Science & Tech. Pew Research Center, 29 Jan. 2015. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. controversies - science vs. public fear: Borut Bohanec at YouTube, uploaded by TEDx Talks, 10 January 2014, Jalonick, Mary. Next-generation GMOs: Pink pineapples and purple  Phys.org - News and Articles on Science and Technology. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Lynas, Mark. GMO safety debate is  Cornell Alliance for Science. N.p., 24 May 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. Genetically Engineered Crops: Experiences and Prospects. 2016. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press. Smith, Jeffrey.  Institute for Responsible Technology. Institute for Responsible Technology, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Smith, Jeffrey. Health  Institute for Responsible Technology. Institute for Responsible Technology, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Student 9 Weise, Elizabeth. Academies of Science finds GMOs not harmful to human  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 17 May 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Are We  GMO Free California. LabelGMOS.org, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. World Hunger, Poverty Facts, Statistics  World Hunger News. World Hunger Education, n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.