Gage 1 Vernon Gage Prof. Cat Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 04/30/2017 Video games are outlets of entertainment that individuals engage in for different reasons. To some video games serve as outlets where one can relieve anger, while to others it is used as a placebo to nullify certain emotions. As time progresses the video game franchise has grown and the amount of people who indulge in gaming continue to increase, which caused scholars and parents alike to wonder whether or not video games are overall beneficial or detrimental to players. There are many variables however that can cause a change in the answer to the posed question with one being the genre of the game played as well as what is being measured to indicate a change among players. In terms of mental effects, video games are beneficial among teens and result in increased cognitive performance, improvements in emotional state, and exude higher levels of motivation. Violent video games as opposed to what many parents believe, can have beneficial effects on the mental capacity teens. Parents have control over what they allow their teen to access and sometimes teens wish to play more violent genres. One such genre could include shooters, which parents tend to deter their teens from playing due to the violence they contain; however they are proven result in and more accurate attention allocation, higher spatial resolution in visual processing, and enhanced mental rotation (Granic 67). The same genre that is feared among concerned parents increase creativity among players. Does this mean that parents are incorrect for being concerned about the games that their teens are exposed to? In Gage 2 this aspect parents should serve as psychiatrists to their teens. The ability of video games to foster creativity can only occur in certain circumstances. If the level of arousal is low then the production of creativity only occurs when the resulting mood is negative, however, when level of arousal is high better creativity scores are produced with positive moods (Hutton 299). This is where parents come in. The genre of mentioned before are games that typically generate high levels of arousal and if parents notice a negative mood resulting from high arousal shooters, then they should find a shooter that generates a positive mood for their teen while at the same time exposing then to content that they deem appropriate. A concerned and engaged parent will deter their teens from playing video games that do not seem to inflict beneficial effects to their offspring, while allowing them to access others that are beneficial to their mental capacity. Recent studies have shown that playing video games improves the emotional state of teens. Douglas Gentile studied cortisol levels among and noted that cortisol levels increase proportionately as stress increases and by examining changes in them it is possible to see stress related changes (Gentile 40). The teens were examined before and after playing video games and post-play teens were recorded to have lower cortisol levels; meaning that the stress level decreased. By making accomplishment inside of the video games these teens feel as if they accomplished something as opposed to the characters being controlled inside of the game, which then positively influences their emotions (Mitrofan 7). Some may argue that violent video games tend to generate aggressive thoughts, however, the same principle of parents governing their children is applicable in every scenario. By limiting teens to games, such as puzzle games, which are proven to moods, promote relaxation, and ward off (Granic 71) the influence that violent video games have will no longer be present. If parents implement their judgement and control the content that their teens engage in, they in-turn Gage 3 will be able to improve the emotional state of their teens. What this entails, as worded by Tom Baranowski is that the insertion of behavior-change (Baranowski 77) in the video games teens play we can have more control over the unwanted emotions they could possibly portray. Video games could see use in motivating teens in modern society. A problem with teens is that the amount of motivation they discharge is constantly diminishing. The lack of motivation poses detrimental effects academically and outside of the classroom. Teachers as well as parents constantly try to find ways to motivate their students/teens so that they remain engaged in their study and succeed in society. A problem with the approach that is typically taken is that video games are viewed as a hindrance to the situation, which is not actually true. Research proves that video games can serve as a catalyst to raising the motivation of teens. It is proven that students who play video games in related areas to what they are studying perform (Sun 243) than those who did not. This is due to the motivation that is received through participation in video games. Instead of video games being excluded from the learning environment they should be assimilated and properly utilized to receive beneficial results. Through this collaboration of technology and education teens the diminishing motivation among teens will revert itself. While video games do possess flaws in the social environment they still have their uses in regard to cognition, emotion, and motivation. These three characteristics are extremely important and should not be neglected among teens. Through properly nurturing, developing, and facilitating these characteristics teens will advance beyond their current peak. A majority of society either engages in video games or closely associates with other individuals who partake in this technological facet. The notion that video games pose only negative effects to Gage 4 participants should be deemed obsolete and if progression is ever to occur, then humans should try to adapt to this advancement and implement it so that both parties can remain satisfied. Works Cited Gentile, Douglas. video game effects on salivary cortisol, arousal, and aggressive thoughts in Computers in Human Behavior, vol. 70, (2017), p. 39-43. dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jshs.2014.12.004, (Accessed Jan. 29, 2017) Sun, Haichun, and Yong Gao. Original Article: Impact Of An Active Educational Video Game On Motivation, Science Knowledge, And Physical  Journal Of Sport And Health Science, vol. 5.(2016): p. 239-245. dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jshs.2014.12.004, (Accessed Jan. 29, 2017) Granic, Isabela, and Adam Lobel. Benefits of Playing Video American Psychologist, vol. 69 (2014): p. 66-78. 10.1037/a0034857, (Accessed Feb. 2, 2017) Hutton, Elizabeth, and S. Shyam Sundar. Video Games Enhance Creativity? Effects of Emotion Generated by Dance Dance Creativity Research Journal, vol. 22 (2010): p. 294-303. 10.1080/10400419.2010.503540, (Accessed Feb. 2, 2017) O. Mitrofan, and M. Paul. aggression in children with behavioral and emotional difficulties associated with television viewing and video game playing? A systematic Child: Care, Health & Development, vol. 35 (2009): p. 5-15. 10.1111/j.1365- 2214.2008.00912.x, (Accessed Feb 3, 2017) Gage 5 Baranowski, Tom And Special Article: Playing For Real. Video Games And Stories For Health-Related Behavior  American Journal of Preventive Medicine, vol. 34 (2010): p. 74-82. 3474-82.e10. ( Accessed Feb. 3, 2017)