1 Alomar Anastasia Khwaja Bander Alomar 04/30/2017 Equality and rights Many people among societies debate whether women should have the same rights and treatments in term of equality with men or not. Throughout the history, women gender were not a major part socially and that have challenged their means to get into better situations compared to men. However, women in the last years have earned many rights which have assisted them to be in a better level in terms of society. Coontz stated better level in term of society by, 1964, fewer than 3 percent of all attorneys and just three of the 422 federal judges were women. Today half of law graduates and a full third of the Supreme Court justices are Equality between genders has become an important matter for those who have sacrificed and suffered the most. Inequality, on the other hand, can lead to crucial issues socially, economically or even politically. It might also bring discrimination and segregation which will affect the productivity and also values. Therefore, men and women should be equal socially and politically to provide a healthy life and a better society. Gender inequality could create difficult issues in individuals which can negatively affect their life, financial issues could be one of those consequences. According to Greene and Smith, the rights movement took a great leap forward with the passage of the 19th Amendment, females still face discrimination in the professional (1). Women might be in a better position socially nowadays but financially they still suffer from discrimination in a 2 Alomar workplace. Greene and Smith also completed their statement, this discrimination can take several forms, including exclusion from specific industries and lower pay for hours (1). Moreover, in term of labor, women in many cases get lower income compared to men even if it the same task or job. According to Ridgeway, still make only about 80% of what men earn for full-time This could illustrate that the challenges that women gender face are severe and might affect their productivity and economy for the most part. Furthermore, inequality also has negatively impacted over social life. According to Ridgeway, 15% of top executive positions in fortune 500 companies are filled by With limited opportunities, women gender will face difficulties influencing others. When individuals have their rights economically and socially, they can have many motives to be even more creative which will impact positively on society. However, women for a long time have suffered from segregation in schools and discrimination in the professional field. Inequality between genders can lower their motives to be more productive, where that can lead to health implications and in some cases might drive into depression. According to Morris, suggests that income inequality affects humans positively and Morris continues result is a change in behavior as income inequality increases, with people taking on higher levels of debt in order to maintain a certain standard of living as well as increased financial distress, longer work hours, and riskier occupations, etc. Higher stress leads to negative health outcomes and leaves people preoccupied with money as opposed to (14). without equality between genders in workplaces can lead to serious implications on society. Also, more time and efforts from women to gain similar income that most men earn would be devastating to 3 Alomar any person. Moreover, health consequences from gender injustice can develop depression and other consequences to individuals. In addition, people have many different perspectives when it comes to gender equality. Many people and activists strive for gender equality, where some other people say that women already have earned their rights. Other people might say that women can not lead crucial tasks because they lack of experience. According to are also less likely to be in managerial or supervisory positions in the workplace, and when they are, their positions carry less authority and power that those occupied by This can illustrate the obstacles that women face with their qualifications and educational achievements in order to improve their professional experience. Even Though men gender more likely to to have more opportunities compared to women, females with lack of rights, over the time have proved themselves socially and politically. Despite the different perspectives of gender equality, equality has become a crucial need in modern societies. Obama once said, woman should earn less than a man for doing the same job -- equal pay for equal work should be a fundamental principle of our economy and our With equal rights, treatments, and opportunities all genders would be able to provide a creative and productive life. a fact that in the past women gender have struggled earning their rights. However, women gender nowadays have become an essential part in any society. With more opportunities and rights women and men could lead to a better society which by far will impact positively over the country. 4 Alomar Work cited Coontz, Stephanie. have come a long way, but still have far to N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Greene, Bridget Marie, and Raymond Arthur Smith. Academic  Inequality in the N.p., 01 Jan. 1970. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Morris, Kevin. Effect of Income Inequality on Individual Ideation-based Creativity via Diss. University of Manitoba, 2015. Presidential Proclamation -- Equality Day,  Archives and Records National Archives and Records Administration, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Ridgeway, Cecilia L. by Gender: How Gender Inequality Persists in the Modern New York: Oxford University Press, 2011. Print.