Pina 1 Marcel Pina Ashley Tisdale Composition I 1 March 2017 Euthanasia: A Controversial Topic All Over The World Multiple views always show up when discussing ideas, emotions, and even facts, but how do you determine whether an idea is correct or incorrect? The topic of euthanasia has long been discussed among many, especially in the area of ethics, when in reality it is a completely advantageous practice. Euthanasia is defined as a practice undertaken by a physician, which intentionally ends the life of a person at her explicit request. This practice has been a controversial topic all over the world and in all the years. The conversation about legalizing euthanasia has not changed, because the people on both sides are using the same arguments. to the World Medical Association euthanasia is the conscious and deliberate carrying out of an act with the clear aim of ending the life of another person under the following conditions: the subject is a legally competent informed person with an incurable disease, who voluntarily requests that his life be (658). In this citation we have the definition of euthanasia, in this practice are 4 types, voluntary that is the decision of the same patient, non- voluntary that is when the patient does not decide, involuntary that is if the patient is not consent and finally the passive and active. Active is when the euthanasia is performed when the medic does something to make the patient die and the passive is when the medic pay attention to the patient or stop helping the patient. In 2013 in Belgium the euthanasia was already legal, in this article the point of view from the people is that the people against euthanasia use the argument of: one can decide if they Pina 2 end or not their (517). Even though many claim that it is unethical due to religious reasons, the church actually contradicts itself because according to the bible, the church says that God is the only one capable of giving and taking away life. Nevertheless, the church also states that God made humans capable of making their own decisions as long as the outcome is beneficial. In the case of euthanasia, it becomes completely beneficial when the doctor releases patients from the pain and agony they might be suffering. If by applying euthanasia patients are being released from their suffering and there are also other benefits seen economically and emotionally, why is it still considered wrongful? Economically speaking, Euthanasia can certainly be beneficial because the families can stop spending money on treatments and hospital accommodations, and it is also an emotional gain due to the fact that they can now let their loved one rest in peace. They are given mental peace, since now they know that their relative has gone to a better place, where he or she will no longer be in pain. Dr. Brian L. Mishara claims that psychological need for both honor and dignity has no time. (430) ethical problem remains, however, that if the wish is not uttered (and in any case it may not be clear that it is uttered freely), nobody can presume to know what the particular person would or does wish internally, and to guess his wish in this most important matter to end or not to end life is at the very least unprofessional and (661) Dr. Monika Ulrichova in this comment states that the against comments are because of this and the people use it to fight against this practice. The rest of the sources are from 2016-2017 the arguments still the same and looking at that, the Pina 3 people and the writers change the point of view through the years. Pina 4 Sources: Cohen-Almagor, Raphael. do no harm: pressing concerns regarding euthanasia in International Journal of Law and Psychiatry, 36, 2013, pp. 515-521, 29 January 2017. Monika. and the Needs of the Terminally Procedia-Social and Behavioral Sciences, 217, 2016, pp. 657-668, 29 January 2017. Mishara, Brian, Weisstub, David. and evidence in the rhetoric of assisted and International Journal of Law and Psychiatry, 36, 2013, pp. 427-435, 19 February 2017.