Choi 1 Jimin Choi Anastasia J. Khawaja ENC 1101 30 April 2017 Obvious dangerous firearms We face to a lot of problems regarding firearms. The problem of firearms has been si nce a long time. Also, gun control which is big part of firearms has been happened in the us a s well as other countries. Basically, even though they already knew how to regulate the gun, t he problem of gun has been happening constantly every single moment. That mean is that gu n control is almost useless way of thinking for everyone. Also, they said that gun is inevitably necessary thing for someone if they face to urgent situation. In other words, this gun control issue could be very sensitive topic. The reason why priority is safe. Banning gun would lead to positive consequences such as other effective finding laws, culture from some one. Also, other reasons of gun should be controlled because it has a lot of negative effects such as increasing murder and bring about creepy mood in society in many w ays. However, some people think gun as safe reason by their own reason. But, the so ciety will be better if we use the firearms at all in the society. Nowadays, Iraq has been starting firearms like tremendous dangerous weapon for experiment. Because of this, a lot of people died and Iraq face to national crisis. After Donald Trump heard about this problem, American authority decided to shoot the missile from the U.S to Iraq. By now, Iraq was attacked form America and they has been damaged. Basically, using firearms bring about terrible result in the world. a difference a decade makes!... some Choi 2 5,000 chemical shells have been discovered over the years in Iraq by U.S. or U.S.-trained Iraqi (10 Laurie). This author points out their Iraq is actually keeping their weapon secretly when some emergency happening begin again. If they stop this nuclear experiment, the war will be started again constantly in the future and even right now as well. Once again, firearms cause only dangerous and harmful problem as long as they keep using firearms for purpose of abuse. Eventually, innocent people who do any other fault are getting damaged from other country where has the purpose out of sense for everyone. As a result, all of people must stop using firearms regardless of any other reason. The reason is that some people who have any other fault have been died. Moreover, it can be related to other problems which have been issued especially nowadays have great confidence that China will properly deal with North Korea. If they are unable to do so, the U.S., with its allies, will! (Donald Trump). President Donald Trump told that China authorities must control and manage the situation of North Korea regarding nuclear problem nowadays. However, China do anything for solving this problem. Why America government is sensitive that North Korea is making tremendous dangerous nuclear weapon for threat of all of countries in the world. Basically, they want to prove it to them regarding their own power in terms of nuclear power. After this, President Donald Trump did caution them whom are North Korea and China about stopping ridiculous action constantly. However, North Korea totally have been ignoring his saying. Even China suggesting any clever solution and other alternatives to mediate North Korea at all. This problem is issue of humanity. If we care about this problem at all, we find out the solution later on as well whenever we have the big crazy issue. As a result, only authority cares about this worldwide problem without any other opinions from nations in the U.S. Of course, the crucial Choi 3 decision could be decided by president. But, the only thing for sure is that got to escape from indifferent our way of thinking about crucial problems. Nowadays, almost broadcast handle this problem of North Korea in many ways. Firearm could be useful for some people based on protect. Because Donald Trump use missile against Iraq when it comes to maintaining peaceful world. From this happening, other countries like North Korea could be afraid and could be stopped by looking tremendous notice from Syria where has been attacked form America. But the most important thing is that it would not have been if some others start to use nuclear. Therefore, not using firearms can be solution. Of course, some countries have got to use the firearms when they face to crisis like inevitable problems. But firearm is generally just killing people based on their own way of thinking. And this happening is not general based on normal way of thinking. But this problem be solved as long as we just neglect this problem. why majority of people care about the issue of the firearms gun control laws reduce crime? Do they save lives? Is it possible they even cost (Adam). This question implies that regulating gun control is no meaning for everyone. The reason why the accident was not reduced although America made specific laws regarding gun control. Moreover, even the past as well, since over 1997, there was the problems of 36,000 firearms related deaths a year. Basically, 51 percent were suicides, and 44 percent homicides from gun. In other words, using gun can bring about suicide as well as murder. Also, We know the D.C. handgun ban reduce (Gary Kleck). This mention could remind of us about firearms. Since this ban took effect in 1976, rather the rating of murder was higher than before. This happening showed us that the gun control brings about opposite result which means accident has been increased. The main thing is that nothing has been changed until now. Choi 4 question is which candidate is smart enough to simply promote what we already know (Power Lunch). Eventually, using gun could protect human from someone who try to kill by using gun. Life, it is one of the most important reason between any other priorities from some people. For instance, we can solve the problem as long as someone is still alive without using firearms. However, someone will be ending up with death, then other people take care of other people who has been killed or died. Basically, using gun must be banned for everywhere in the world. All in all, shooting gun is totally unacceptable. A lot of people think that gun control is not solution regarding prevent accident. The main reason is that people already know how to stop the violence in society. Therefore, we can know that we need to do pros and cons about firearms. Second, they would say that president and national assembly must be good at controlling gun control if they want to stop to use gun control. However, we might think the priority between life and killing someone. According to article, question is: which candidate is smart enough to simply promote what we already know (Power Lunch). After we compromise, this confliction between using firearms or not will be reduce as long as they will try to make alternatives about minimizing their opinion. Overall, got to stop using firearms like gun, chemical weapon, missile like the se things. Our future be having hope at all if countries in the world keep this situation o f using firearms every single moment. If we think basis of the firearms, someone has been usi ng gun unconditionally every moment whenever they face to big problems as issues on news, social media, or wherever someone can see easily. As a result, got to get set their min d as peaceful condition for everyone. As long as somebody start to use firearms, revenge by using firearms. Although they must compete or glance at others, they must Choi 5 use other method to solve their problems. People who use firearms are literally public e nemy of the society. It will lead to evil of the society. The only thing for sure is th at firearms bring about safety world. Choi 6 Works Cited Fisher, Max. the Syrian Chemical Weapons Problem Is So Hard to Journal of Social Perspective, 13 April, 2017. Web. Outbrain. Is US really in North  FoxNews.com. N.p, 01 Web. 13 April, 2017. Liptak, Adam. of gun control laws is tough to Journal of Social Perspective, 29 June 2008. Web. Jake Novak. control the answer. We already know how to stop the 12 June 2016. Web.