Box 1 Hannah Box Emil Smith Composition 1 - Section 2 4/27/17 Home Education and Collegiate Success Homeschooling as we now know it began with controversy in the 1960s (Riley 11). Although homeschooling has been a legal education option in America since that time, many question whether it is a good education option for children. Home education has become increasingly normalized since the 1990s, partly because of the data that has appeared by scholars asking the question - can home educated students be academically successful in college and continue to be successful later in life? This question has been asked by scholars due to the unstructured nature of homeschooling. With over two million children being home educated in America today (Riley 12), it is considered a popular education option. Although there have been people who do not believe homeschoolers are proper, successful citizens, studies show that home educated students have equal or superior and collegiate academic success when compared to students of other forms of schooling. An understanding of home education is vital to prove that homeschooling students are successful in college and beyond. Institutionalized America was established to create academic success and prepare students for college by using formalized curricula that have the intention of providing a foundation for college learning. Home education often lacks the courses that are commonly used in other forms of schooling. There are not the same learning objectives and benchmarks in homeschooling as there are in formal education, Box 2 but researchers such as Alan Thomas and Harriet Pattison of the University of London have found that young homeschoolers (ages 5-11) hit the same learning objectives as other children. Although their study, Informal Home Education: Philosophical Aspirations Put Into  (2013) only studies children of the primary age group, their research gives insight into how current home education teaches children. Thomas and Pattison found through interviewing homeschooling families that children can learn vital skills through observing the world around them, speaking with adults or other children, and learning skills for necessity or pleasure. Even though these actions are ordinary, they are a large part of a young learning process. This style of learning can cause children to hit different at different times or in different ways, but it also allows children to excel past the learning objectives that are expected for their age (Thomas, Pattison 147). This study shows that unrestricted learning can possibly allow a child to excel beyond the constraints of a grade level. Success in college is measured in two ways - academic success, such as test scores and gpa, and social success, such as leadership skills and the ability to work with others. There have been multiple studies on academic success in homeschooled students compared to students from other educational backgrounds. The first study that tested this was Michael F. Exploring Academic Outcomes Of Homeschooled  (2010). This study analyzed the academic outcomes of home educated, Catholic school educated, and public school educated students at a doctoral institution in the midwest. It found that the homeschooled students scored highest on all fronts tested - average ACT scores (average of 26.5 for homeschoolers versus 25.6 for private schoolers, 25.1 for Catholic schoolers, and 25.0 for public schoolers), high school GPA (average of 3.74 for homeschoolers, 3.43 for private schoolers, 3.49 for Catholic schoolers, Box 3 and 3.56 for public schoolers), first-year GPA (average of 3.41 for homeschoolers, 3.13 for private schoolers, and 3.12 for both Catholic schoolers and public schoolers), four-year GPA (average of 3.46 for homeschoolers, 3.18 for private schoolers, 3.13 for Catholic schoolers, and 3.16 for public schoolers), and graduation rate (average of 66.7% for homeschoolers, 51.5% for private schoolers, 54.2% for Catholic schoolers, and 58.6% for public schoolers) (Cogan 23). An Evaluative Study Of The Academic Achievement Of Homeschooled Students Versus Traditionally Schooled Students Attending A Catholic  (2013) by Marc Snyder showed similar results. This study tested students attending a Catholic university in south Florida. The study showed that on average, homeschooled students scored higher than both public schooled and Catholic schooled students on all fronts tested - average ACT scores (average of 26 for homeschoolers, 24.53 for Catholic schoolers, and 24.22 for public schoolers), SAT scores (average of 1864.94 for homeschoolers, 1761.04 for Catholic schoolers, and 1706.76 for public schoolers), college GPA (average of 3.14 for homeschoolers, 2.88 for Catholic schoolers, and 2.66 for public schoolers), GPA based on major (average of 3.20 for homeschoolers, 3.12 for Catholic schoolers, and 2.97 for public schoolers), and core GPA (average of 3.11 for homeschoolers, 3.02 for Catholic schoolers, and 2.97 for public schoolers) (Snyder 301). Both of these studies show that homeschooled students are often above average when it comes to academic success in college. The other aspect of collegiate success - social skills, has also been studied. Differences In Competence, Autonomy, And Relatedness Between Home Educated And Traditionally Educated Young  (2015) by Gina Riley tested homeschooled students on their competence (the mental capability to do something successfully), autonomy (independence), and Box 4 relatedness (ability to work with others) and compared that to traditionally educated students. Riley tested the students through an online questionnaire that asked personality questions, as well as background information on the students. The test found that homeschooled students scored higher than traditionally schooled students when it came to competence: 6.27 versus 5.27 out of 7, as well as autonomy: 6.02 versus 4.75 out of 7 (Riley 17). Home educated students scored around the same as traditionally schooled students when it came to relatedness (Riley 18). This study, in addition to Cogan and studies, shows that homeschooled students are not only academically successful, but are also either average or above average when it comes to social ability. Both of these studies prove that home educated students are at least average (if not above average) when it comes to collegiate success. Although there is definitive data showcasing academic success, there are still many negative stereotypes surrounding home educated students. Rob Civic Perils of (2002) is an example of an article stating that home education does not prepare a person to be successful. Reich believes that homeschooling can allow parents to customize their education, but customization reflects a consumer mentality in education and potentially dilutes active democratic (Reich 56). Reich believes that without sharing the common experience of attending school with other citizens, homeschoolers are automatically outcasts, and will not be accepting of others and active in a community enough to be successful because they are not exposed to different cultures and beliefs at a formal school setting (58). This belief can be refuted by many scholarly articles, including Michael H. article The Common Myths About  (2006). Romanowski takes many common myths about homeschooling and uses studies from others to Box 5 disprove them. To disprove statement about homeschoolers not being active enough in a community to be a successful citizen (which is a common opinion), Romanowski uses a study by Brian Ray (who surveyed 7300 homeschooled adults) from 2003, which found that home educated individuals were very active in their communities, with 71% of homeschool graduates actively participating in community service (compared to 37% of US adults) and 88% of homeschool graduates being members of a community organization (compared to 50% of US adults) (127). To disprove the other Reich opinion, that homeschooling turns a student into an outcast, Romanowski states that that opinion is simply based off of the assumption that school is the only time and place a child socializes, and ignores the efforts of many homeschool parents to ensure that their children are being social through extracurricular activities (125). It can be concluded that there is data that can disprove these biased, unsubstantiated opinions. According to numerical data, home educated students have equal or superior academic and life skills when compared to traditionally educated students. Although there are academic articles that reflect opinions about homeschooled students not being prepared for adult life, these are easily disputed by numerical data and other academic articles. Home education, when done properly, can be a great way to prepare a student for collegiate success - both when it comes to academic achievement, and social ability. Every person is different, but for some, home education is a great schooling option to obtain academic and social success. Box 6 Works Cited Cogan, Michael F. Exploring Academic Outcomes Of Homeschooled  Of College 208 (2010) Reich, Rob. The Civic Perils Of  7 (2002): 56. Academic Riley, Gina. Differences In Competence, Autonomy, And Relatedness Between Home Educated And Traditionally Educated Young  Social Science 90.2 (2015): 1-27. Search Alumni Romanowski, Michael H. Revisiting The Common Myths About  79.3 (2006): 125-129. Search Snyder, Marc. An Evaluative Study Of The Academic Achievement Of Homeschooled Students Versus Traditionally Schooled Students Attending A Catholic  Education: A Journal Of Inquiry And 16.2 (2013): 288-308. Thomas, Alan, and Harriet Pattison. Informal Home Education: Philosophical Aspirations Put Into  In Philosophy And 2 (2013): 141.