1 Smith Jeffrey Smith Professor Anastasia Khawaja ENC 1101 04/15/2017 The Pursuit of Happiness: Euro Trip Edition Swedish citizens are known for being a deeply happy people (Ulf-G, In fact, they are ranked 9th globally in terms of overall satisfaction with their lives according to the 2017 World Happiness published by the Development Solutions on behalf of the United Nations. The authors cite a number of possible explanatory variables for a happiness, such as trust in government, GDP, and generosity. (Helliwell 3). In the past, Sweden has proven able to adjust their economic and sociopolitical directions to stave off economic strife. (Brown 34). Once more, it may be time for them to alter course in order to avoid economic collapse and to maintain the happiness of the citizenry; furthermore, others believe it is time to begin down an entirely new path altogether. The main reason the Swedish people are so happy is that they have a socially forward and nurturing economic stance, and in return, Swedish citizens have been a vastly happy people; if Sweden wants to maintain this happiness in the current world climate, there are areas of their socioeconomic policies that must adapt to the changing world market. The happiness of the Swedish people is once more faltering with the economy, as it has done in the past. Sweden has weathered this change previously by making changes to its economic policies and socialist programs (Schnyder 1130). Throughout the 20th century, 2 Smith Sweden had a boon in citizen welfare and success with their socialist model economically. Unfortunately, by 1993, the system began to show itself to be untenable in the long run, and so significant adjustments were made, largely by privatizing industry and putting a tight leash on inflation. (Feng 32). These changes were made in order to stabilize a flawed system while maintaining the desire for state welfare programs. Now, more than two decades after Sweden made changes for the good of the country, it must once again adapt. Taxation, long seen to be the of social welfare, must be drastically cut; alongside a reduction in taxes, government spending must be sharply curtailed. It may be time for Sweden to rely more on and attempt to thrive based more firmly on its own economic merits. By reducing taxes, and curtailing government spending, it is hopeful that consumer spending will increase and further business reforms and privatization reforms can be made to further impact in a positive sense the future stability of economy (Feng 34). On another front, The Heritage of Economic Freedom that there are clear issues facing the Swedish economy and government and cites reforms that the country has taken to alleviate these issues. The mentions the issues Sweden has encountered with tax burden, rampant government spending, and industry privatization, but offers an optimistic outlook on the present and into the future; from the compared to the wake of the reforms in 1993, tax revenue makes up less of the GDP than it did in the early business freedom is increasing rapidly, and government spending is on the decline, which may demonstrate that the country is moving in the right direction, though more drastic measures have been considered. 3 Smith As evidenced above, Sweden is aware that changes are necessary for the long-term survival and prospering of the economy. While there are those who favor small, important changes that preserve the current socialist and welfare-heavy governmental and economic approach, there are also those who favor broad sweeping reforms and a near-complete governmental shift. As a response to the global climate, there is increasing threat of a conservative, right-wing revival. This would, on its face, appear to represent not a reparation of the system, but a demolishing, with the populace as victims; however, such a drastic shift may be necessary in the coming years. Andrew Brown cites the rise of the Sweden Democrats, a right-wing party opposed to the very socialist policies that have made Sweden the happy locale it has been for the past half century. The Sweden Democrats believe that by closing the borders and doing away with any immigrants or non-native Swedish citizens, the economy could be rejuvenated. The party is traditionally defined as right-wing, hyper-nationalist, against modern social reform, staunchly opposed to immigration, and longing for the old Sweden had in the (Brown 36). Ironic, given the makeup of the party demographically averages too young to have been more than a toddler during those old In the 2010 parliamentary elections, 20 members of the Sweden Democratic party were seated in the Riksdag (Swedish parliament); by 2014 this number rose to 49 seats, nearly 15 percent of the total in the Riksdag and are set to do even better in the 2018 elections. This party could represent drastic economic change, but there are those who say this is not the answer. Society, not economic policy, might actually be the real driving force behind the that Swedish citizens experience. John Larabell, in New discusses that the Scandinavian socialist model might be a functional byproduct of a unique and different 4 Smith culture, and that this culture leads to the perceived including the law of Jante. The law of Jante, or aupposedly a conformist-style feeling or way of life that pervades the culture in Scandinavian countries. It seems to cement the feeling that everyone deserves the same opportunities and that no one is special. All uniqueness is to be discouraged, as is complaint or attention-seeking in any form (Larabell 19). If one believes this, perhaps happiness is a little too much like conformity? Maybe contentment is achieved through silence, or lack of protestation? However, even if this is so, this same citizenry, with the same outlook, is nevertheless content to allow the socialist economic policies that are in place to care for and nurture them, nonetheless, and a growing proportion are beginning to take the social welfare policies for granted, which brings up a very important point: personal responsibility. Laziness is on the rise; workers are faking illness to make the most of sick days, and costing the government. Greater policing of the workforce or stricter regulations on the policies could go a long way in reducing excess money wasted due to the lowest denominator of the workforce (Feng 34). Perhaps the culture of Sweden does play a role, but it seems nearly intractable from the role that the existing social welfare economy plays. Changes must be made, regardless of the root causes of the problem. Regardless of the next steps that are taken, whether moderate or seemingly drastic, economic or social, Sweden is attempting to maintain its happiness and the economy that has seemingly provided this happiness. Sweden has made the changes it has had to make in the past, and from the evidence, seems to be doing the same things today. There are a number of issues that must be addressed, ranging from the economic to the personal, and likely no one way to fix it. The small changes seem to be working, as seen in the but perhaps if 5 Smith things begin to devolve and the Sweden Democrats come to power in the next elections with a whole new approach to democracy, those sweeping changes may be necessary. Maybe any economic changes must be coupled with greater personal responsibility from the citizens. Whether the truth lies in economic change or with those who believe that there must be a fundamental change in the people to maintain the status quo, Sweden has a clear objective to work toward for the future. If they can find the right balance of policies to adapt from each theory in moderation, perhaps the future is not so daunting after all. 6 Smith Works Cited Brown, Andrew. Dark Side of January 10, 2011, pp. 34-37 Feng, Tian. Dynamic Welfare State: How adaption can save the Swedish Harvard International Review, 2008, pp. 32-35 Helliwell, J., Layard, R., & Sachs, J. (2017). World Happiness Report 2017, New York: Sustainable Development Solutions Network. Larabell, John T. happiest people on New August 22, 2016, Vol. 32 Issue 16, pp. 17 - 21 Amado. satisfaction and socio-economic conditions: Some international Journal of (2006), Vol. 35 pp. 348 365 Schnyder, Gerhard a phoenix from the ashes? Reassessing the transformation of the Swedish political economy since the of European Public September 11, 2012, pp. 1126 1145 Ulf-G, Gerdthama and Johannesson, Magnus relationship between happiness, health, and socio-economic factors: results based on Swedish The Journal of Socio-Economics 2001, Vol 30, Issue 6, pp. Economic Heritage.org, www.heritage.org/index/country/sweden