Peng 1 Peng Jiang Mr. Kevin Ip ENC1102 April 29, 2017 E-Sports According to New reports, it indicated: total prize money of all e- sports events held in 2015 reached $61.0 million, a 70% year-on-year increase. The global E-sports audience was 226 million gamers, and the number of E-sports Enthusiasts reached 115 million in 2015.Global revenues in 2015 reached $325 million But what makes eSports so attractive? Any players can play it and become professional players by hardworking. It may same as sports, but it In most game, the audience just sees the pro player playing basketball or football on the screen and Olympic game always mention the spirit of sportsmanship and fair play. However, these pro players usually have significant physical advantages in the sports. For example, A typical NBA center stands in the 7-foot range. Guards who are the smallest players on the court usually are above 6 feet tall. The basketball hoop is 10 feet high. If the player is taller than other, they will enjoy more advantages in the game. By contrast, a young gamer just needs to practice and play hard in e-Sports. At least, they could have an opportunity to engage a big game. It is clearly to say that the e-Sport has lower requirements of the player compare to the basketball, football. The audience also is easy to engage the e-Sports through watching Twitch, is a live streaming video platform, and then the audience could learn through the skill trough watching Twitch and practice it in the e-Sport game. When people talk about the e-Sports, it is so hard to ignore the League of Peng 2 Legends. LOL is a multiplayer online battle arena video game and is the most popular e-Sports game over the world. The developers Riot Games revealed almost 100 million people play League of Legends every month. On August 23rd, Twitch stated that over 2 million viewers watched that ESL One: Cologne 2015 and the League of Legends NA LCS in the weekend. In addition, e-Sports Earnings that is a website records Faker who is a pro player in the League of Legends has earned $912,406.26 from 34 tournaments. Especially, Faker (real name: Lee, Sang Hyeok) is 20 years old. So, he was considered as a successful example that playing full-time video games a full-time job. But how the public think of video games and the player? For most people, they are not easy to get rid of a stereotype that game player was isolated in society. For example, there is an interview with the stranger, does the average person think of on YouTube. In the video, a girl stated: is six words, boy in their basements playing I think this is because the game player will spend less time in other activities, such as interacting with their family and friends. However, Granic indicated that most of the gamer is not a socially isolated. Granic provides a comparison between World of Warcraft and Facebook in the paper. In the comparison, he indicated that WOW has almost 12 million regular players. And Facebook had over 5 million daily users in 2012. So, this condition gives a massive social context to the player. He also proposes: are rapidly learning social skills and prosocial behavior that might generalize to their peer and family relations outside the gaming environment (Granic, at Betides, Online gaming has gained almost millions of users around the globe. In the paper, playing online computer games creates online, and offline social Professor Trepte and other researcher analyze whether online social capital will increase offline social support. They proposed: online game physical and social proximity as well as their Peng 3 mutual familiarity influence bridging and bonding social capital (Trepte, et The results indicated that online gaming might lead to strong social ties if gamers engage in online activities that continue beyond the game and extend these with offline activities. In fact, the game player lack the society supports, and the Online game may expand their circles of society. Except for society support, the e-Sports also is benefits to education. Rai who is a professor of Shandong University of Science and Technology point out that Massively-Multiplayer Online Games (MMOGs) provides a uniquely engaging environment for players. In a study of 30,000 players, researchers found that 70% had spent at least ten continuous hours in a virtual world at one sitting. Also, Rai indicated: Many scientists has observed that players intensely involved with video games and then display characteristics of the psychological state, which called flow experience (Rai, at  It is characterized by user confidence, exploratory behaviors, enjoyment, distorted time perception, and greater learning. And MMOs are uniquely likely to evoke these effects among players. So, the video game will not cause some negative consequences on the player. By contrast, playing the video game with a reasonable guide could help player to improve their confidence and greater learning. That is one of reasons that lots people was attracted by e-Sprots. When we talk about the e-Sports, South Korea be ignored. South Korea is a thriving example of e-Sports industry around the world. Marquet provides the analysis and statistic for the game market in South Korea. She indicated: game market estimated to be around 8,80 trillion won in 2011 (around 6,2 billion euros), the sales of online games are expected to be around 6,23 trillion won (around 4,4 billion euros). ( She also points out that the first of online games, called the World Cyber Games, were held in Korea in 2000. The first World Cyber Games Peng 4 involved 174 competitors from 17 different countries. All of the statistics prove the e- Sports is growing to be a thriving industry. And then lots of pro gamers consider playing the game as a job, from 2000 to 2008, the number of registered pro players increased by 16.3% per year. Marquet also mentioned that some foreigners even moved to Korea to play for the Korean pro teams. It is clearly to say that the young generation has begun to think seriously about the e-Sports and to touch this industry. But, how to become a e-Sports player? For most people, the access is easy. They just need a PC and then download e-Sport games such as the League of Legends or Data2. Especially, most of the e-Sports games are free to play, and that is why LOL have almost 100 million players. If you are interested in e- Sports game and you did well at playing this game. You could watch the pro player on Twitch to improve your skill and follow the IeSF (International e-Sports Federation) to get information about the e-Sports game. If you want to be a professional player, the best way is contracting with clubs, and then they will help you to be a pro player with vocational training. In conclusion, this industry has the higher earning, million players and audiences, and lower requirements. The public should restart to think about this industry without any basis. Playing e-Sport game is benefits to education and will not cause the player lacking social supports. If you think you are interested in it, just do it. Peng 5 Work cited Granic, Lobel, Engels. The Benefits of Playing Video Games. American Psychologist. January,2014. Rai, Yan. Future Perspectives on Next Generation e-Sports Infrastructure and Exploring Their Benefits. International Journal of Sports Science and Engineering. February 10, 2009. Trepte, Reinecke, Juechems. The social side of gaming: How playing online computer games creates online and offline social support. University of Hamburg, Department of Psychology, Institute of Social Psychology, Von-Melle-Park 5, 20146 Hamburg, Germany. Jennifer Rousse-Marquet. Online gaming: An integral part of the South-Korean culture. Inaglobal. 20/06/2013. e-Sports Earnings, 100, Highest Overall Web. 4/16/2017.