Sutton 1 Brandon Sutton Mrs. Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 23 March 2017 Gun Control Conversation On the news and on social media, people constantly bring up mass murders and gun control laws. It is a highly controversial and super discussed topic in American society today. The gun laws in America are lax in comparison to gun laws According to reliable sources that have been discovered, the conversation about gun control ebbs and flows following mass shootings and gun violence, especially when the violence that occurs involves people of The gun control issue, like most issues in modern American government, is highly divided in regards to both of the major parties in America. The Republican Party defends the right to bear arms set by the Second Amendment of the Constitution, while the Democratic Party favors more strict gun regulation. According to the journal article by Carl T. Bogus entitled Gun Control And Cities: Public Policy And  from the Government Law he states how in handguns were used in 60% of all (Bogus 441-82). conversation about gun control consistently changes, based on the aftermaths of murders of people of color by the police, or mass shootings. The conversation regarding gun violence is a very divided subject, and people get very heated discussing the matter, as it is not the easiest topic to discuss amongst people of different political backgrounds. Some people vehemently hate the idea of guns in their current state, widespread and seemingly very easy to access. However, there are some people disagree with a Sutton 2 passion, and believe that guns should be easily accessible. Following mass shootings and violence against people of color, the liberal side of the government has its point proven that there might need to be some sort of gun reform in the United States of America. After mass shootings, people are afraid and tend to tighten up on security due to fear. For example, the Orlando shooting might have been a point in time where people would tighten up security, especially for music and LGBTQ+ events. However, both sides need to come to a happy medium, and resolve the issue in order to prevent lives to be lost because of a gun-related incident, be it suicide, homicide, or any other form of killing. This might be something to consider, in an unbiased opinion as well. America, just according to a source, might have a gun issue. In Charles W. article Death Of Gun Control: An American from the peer-reviewed journal America is described as despite having than five percent of the is infamous for having half of the (Collier 102-31). The United States appears, solely according to this article, to have many more guns than necessary. However, another source would disagree with that statement. This survey was taken at a Southern university, so the answers may be skewed towards the more conservative and gun-promoting agenda. According to this survey, used for a journal article written by Brian K. Payne and Robert Reidel, Jr. in the journal Student which asks people questions about their views on the gun control laws in America, most people who oppose these laws are criminal justice majors, people who own guns, people who have experience with guns, and residents in rural (Payne, Reidel 314). This proves that there are differing and equally important opinions on this very important topic. This conversation changes erratically Sutton 3 depending upon who is speaking, and how long after an incident involving a gun occurs, a crucial point. In conclusion, the conversation about gun control in American society ebbs and flows, depending on the time. Mass shootings, statistics about gun violence in cities, and political parties all help determine a specific opinion on the highly-debated and controversial topic of gun control. Some influential people in government have large control in regards to gun laws, and how they are regulated. The Supreme Court has in the past and present made some very critically mixed laws in regards to gun control in America. For instance, the super conservative late Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia had very strong opinions opposing strict gun control laws. In fact, his opinion, according to Allen Rostron who wrote for the academic law journal and Clark Law a solid presentation of textual arguments and historical evidence for interpreting the Second Amendment broadly to protect non-military use of (Rostron, 383-418). According to this article, the late Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia believes that there is historical evidence surrounding the justification of the Second Amendment of the Constitution. It appears that a good number of Americans are very hung up on this issue and need to come to some agreement, so there can be less chaos and create more of an understanding between both major political parties of mainstream American politics. Works Cited Bogus, Carl T. Gun Control And Cities: Public Policy And  Government Law 1.2 (2008): 441-482. to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text Wilson). Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Sutton 4 Collier, Charles W. The Death Of Gun Control: An American  41.1 (2014): 102-131. Search Alumni Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Payne, Brian K., and Riedel Jr., Robert Gun Control Attitudes And The Criminal Justice Student: Do Differences  Student 36.2 (2002): 314. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Rostron, Allen. Gun Rights and Improving Gun Control after District of Columbia v. & Clark Law Review (2009): 383-418. to Legal Periodicals & Books Full (H.W. Wilson). Web. 13 Feb. 2017.