Zimmerman 1 Matthew Zimmerman De Carion ENC 1102 March 12 2017 The Use of Visual Rhetoric by the CDC Image 1: Image 2: Advertisements are a key way for large organizations to spread their ideas to the public. One such organization is the Center for Disease Control and prevention, or CDC. One of their most important ad campaigns is about the current opioid abuse epidemic. In recent years, the number of opioid users has dramatically increased but the number of patients that are receiving care has not (Opioid Basics). This means that the rate at which these potentially addictive drugs are being prescribed and abused is also increasing. These increases can be traced back to drug companies which must sell large amounts of drugs in order to stay in business due to the large Zimmerman 2 cost of research (Nuijten, Mark). The CDCs response is to use ads to educate the public about the hazards of opioid abuse. The ads made by the CDC employ ethical, emotional, as well as logical appeals to get people more interested in helping prevent the epidemic as well as help those already affected. When advertising, it is important to establish some form of credibility, for this purpose the CDC tries to appeal to a ethics in order to garner their trust. The primary way the CDC does this is by making their website visible in the ads. By placing the website link in such an open place, it allows for a viewer to easily follow up on the information seen on the ads. The link shows the viewer that the CDC is open for more research to be done, where as an organization that was not credible would not want you to be able to find more information as it may not exist. With the current state of the news media in this country the audience they are trying to reach may not take information presented to be factual. The openness in providing others their research shows that they are reliable and want others to trust them in return. The CDC also attempts to establish credibility by showing off the fact that they are a government organization. Many people believe that the government provides truthful information because that is their responsibly. For those who have a distrust of the government they may be able to find the CDC credible because they are not affiliated with a political party. (Mission, Role, and Pledge). The lack of party affiliation can help a person see the CDC as a neutral entity instead of associating it with a party trying to push ideas they may not agree with. Image 1 goes even further by telling the viewer to consult with their doctor, who is probably considered credible by the viewer. Therefore, if the CDC and doctors are working together then the CDC must be credible. Zimmerman 3 Once a viewer considers the CDC as a credible source they will be able to begin to connect with the content of the ad, which for most people will be an emotional connection. In image one the CDC establishes an emotional connection by showing a woman experiencing pain. From this the viewer is meant to feel sympathy for the woman and in turn do more research about the issue. The CDCs hope is that once more research is done more effort will be given by the person to help prevent and fix the issue. Another emotional appeal is how the ads text is phrased. It says your pain, manage your by using the word it attempts to place the viewer in the position of whomever may be experiencing problems related to opioids. The second image is like the first as it depicts a man who seems to be very distraught over his medication. Just like the first image the viewer is meant to feel an emotional connection to the depiction in the form of sympathy. The text in the second image is used differently however, as it is giving a statistic about overdoses. This statistic is describing the likelihood of people who overdose and in the image man can be seen holding a pill bottle. From this a viewer may assume from this that the man may be about to accidently overdose on his medication. The CDC wants people to become attached to the advertisements so they personalize the images. When a person is emotionally attached to something there is a much higher chance they will get involved in its cause. The use of emotional triggers in ads made by CDC are very powerful because they directly communicate their message to the public and push them to get involved with issue at hand. Although these emotional appeals are strong they may not have the same affect across the entire audience they are reaching. Some people may not be able to connect emotionally to the ads so the CDC make sure to also appeal to the logical argument against the use of opioids. For a logical argument to be impactful it must have three parts, a claim, reason, and an unstated assumption (Lane et al. 33- Zimmerman 4 34). In image one the main text this is seen in statistic that claims many as 1 in 4 people receiving struggles with From this it can be reasoned that opioids have a direct connection to people struggling with some form of addiction. If these opioids are this dangerous then a logical person would be able to see the unstated assumption that the issue needs to be addressed. It also builds upon the emotional appeal as the viewer may now think of people they know and realize that any of them could also be struggling with addiction. Also in image one, other ways of dealing with pain are given, this is done to show that there are reasonable alternatives to opioids for pain management. The claim of better methods of treatment followed by the reasoning that they will help solve opioid abuse will lead a logical person to the assumption that there are treatment methods better than opioids. In image two the CDC attempts to do a similar thing by giving a statistic that attempts to show a correlation between opioid use and overdose deaths. Again, this claim would lead a logical person to see the reason in the argument, leading them to what the CDC is trying to communicate. Opioid use is extremely common among adults as it is used to treat a variety of illnesses. The drugs availability combined with its addictive nature make for a deadly combination. The CDC relies on connecting with a ethics, emotions, and logic to help show them the dangers of opioid abuse. Ancillary to these rhetoric devices is the appeal to the timeliness of the issue, it is implied in both images that failure to act on this issue may result in a potential overdose. No one wants to see this, but the CDC makes sure to put that in the back of mind as they look at one of these images. Advertisements help the CDC address the issues with the public. Without the careful implementation of rhetorical appeals in these advertisements the CDC would not be able to have an impact on a person and the opioid epidemic would have very little impeding its spread. Zimmerman 5 Works Cited: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Opioid Basics, 20 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Nuijten, Mark Potential Impact of Current and Future Pharmaceutical Policy Changes on Cash Flows for Innovative Medicines Journal of Private Equity. Vol. 18, No. 1, 2014 Business Abstracts with Full Text (H.W. Wilson) Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Mission, Role, and Pledge. 20 Dec. 2016. Web.26 Feb. 2017. Emily Lane, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32 -35. E-text.