Tiffany Gryszko Kevin IP ENC 1102-002 04/17/2017 Embryonic Stem Cell Research: Freezing Embryos and Federal Funding Although Embryonic stem cell research may be viewed as unethical by the Catholic Church, it does have the potential to cure many different degenerative diseases that affect millions of people all around the world. Stem cells have the potential to cure many degenerative diseases such as cancer, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease by replacing or rebuilding damaged cells. Finding cures for numerous diseases using embryonic stem cells would advance medical science drastically. Embryonic stem cell researchers need sufficient funding and embryo donations from donors in order for them to reach significant advances in their research. A time limit needs to be created for freezing embryos derived from in vitro fertilization in the United States. This would help increase the number of embryos donated to research. Embryonic stem cells are unspecialized cells that are derived from the embryo. Since these cells are pluripotent, they can transform into any type of cell in the body and become a specialized cell. These cells are very popular in scientific research since they are pluripotent. Embryonic stem cells are derived from embryos, those donated from in vitro fertilization. In vitro fertilization is the fertilization of eggs by sperm outside of the body in a test tube or petri dish. Once the eggs have been fertilized, the eggs divide and become embryos. After about 5 days, several cells from the embryos begin dividing and proliferating. During in vitro fertilization, the embryos are usually inserted into a womb 3 to 5 days after the fertilization has occurred (MedlinePlus). The rest of the embryos that are not used are usually frozen for future use or donated to research with the consent of the donors. As of 2009, there are about 400,000 human embryos in freezers of in vitro fertilization clinics that are not being used and most likely will not ever be used (Rowley). Parents of the embryos which are used for in vitro fertilization have the option to either freeze them or donate them to research. In the United States, federal funding is prohibited for research in which a human embryo was created specifically for research or in which a human embryo was destroyed or subject to injury or death. These prohibitions were stated in the Dickey-Wicker Amendment, which was first enacted in 1996 and is reenacted every year since then (The Embryo Project Encyclopedia). Embryonic stem cell clinics and researchers have to rely on private funding since it is very difficult to attain government funding. Many people travel to other countries for cures that use stem cells because of the strict regulations in the U.S., countries such as Singapore have much more liberal laws concerning funding of stem cell research. In 2013 the National Institute of Health (NIH) gave $146.1 million for Human embryonic stem cell research, $431 million for non-embryonic human stem cell research, $153.7 million for embryonic non-human stem cell research, and $612.8 million for non-embryonic non-human stem cell research (NIH Stem Cell Research Funding). The amount of funding that the NIH has given towards embryonic stem cell research is much less than the amount of funding that was given to non-embryonic stem cell research. Many stem cell researchers in the U.S. must rely on private funding since government funding can be difficult to attain. Since embryonic stem cell research was only developed in 1984, it is still considered a relatively recent discovery and thus there is no maximum storage period set for freezing embryos. According to the Pacific Fertility Center longest time a human embryo has been stored is 25-30 years and, typically, patients that have left embryos in storage for this long are not coming back for (Pacific Fertility Center). Keeping embryos frozen is costly as well since the tanks and frozen embryo banks have to be maintained. Parents of the embryos have to take into consideration if they want to have more children in the future. If they plan on having more children using in vitro fertilization then it might make sense for them to keep their embryos frozen. They also need to consider a time period, because they most likely will not be having children 20 plus years later. In the United Kingdom, they have regulations on the time limit for how long embryos can be kept frozen. They do not allow embryos to be kept frozen for more than 5 years, unlike the U.S. where embryos can be frozen indefinitely (Pacific Fertility Center). The United States should have similar regulations regarding the freezing of embryos as the United Kingdom. These regulations should include a time limit that would be reasonable to the parents of the embryos and the in vitro clinics. The U.S. government could start by passing a regulation that would limit the freezing of embryos to 10 years, which would be more than the limit set in the United Kingdom but still less than indefinitely. After 10 years of freezing an embryo, the embryo should be donated to research immediately. The United Kingdom gives the parents the option to either discard the embryo or donate it to research. They should not be given the option to discard the embryo when it could be used to potentially save other lives. It seems to be unethical for them to discard it. Discarding the embryo serves no good to anyone. If the U.S. government does not create a time limit for freezing embryos then the number of embryos being kept frozen will keep rising, which will require more and more resources. Those who support the use of embryos for embryonic stem cell research would agree that a time limit needs to be created for freezing the embryos. This would save the in vitro fertilization clinics time and money that is being spent on the upkeep of the frozen embryos. By passing such a regulation, more embryos would be donated to research and less embryos would be going to waste. The money that would be saved from the clinics could be donated to embryonic stem cell research since embryonic stem cell researches do not receive much federal funding and mostly rely on private funding. In vitro fertilization clinics should support the creation of a time limit since it would benefit them as well. We need to take action in order for any changes to occur. Firstly, you can reach out to your local representative to advocate for creating a regulation to limit how long an embryo can be kept frozen. You can also advocate for federal embryonic stem cell research funding since embryonic stem cell researchers rely heavily on funding. You can contact them through email, phone, or write them a letter. Representatives have the power to create bills, which go through a long process of steps until they reach the president who can either sign and pass the bill or veto it. Secondly, you can help embryonic stem cell researchers by donating to non-profit organizations that are working to advance stem cell research, such as the International Society For Stem Cell Research whose promise is transform human health worldwide through stem cell (ISSCR). Americans For Cures is another organization that you can donate to as well whose mission is to for stem cell research and therapy development, entirely with the aim to improve the lives of patients and their families suffering chronic disease and (Americans For Cures). Your contribution to either of these organizations would help make a difference in the advancement of embryonic stem cell research. Embryonic stem cells will one day be the cure to many cell-based diseases. Creating a regulation that puts a time limit on freezing embryos would be a step forward in the medical world. Not only would fewer embryos be discarded and donated to research but it would also save money and time for in vitro fertilization clinics. The longer embryos are kept frozen, the longer it will take researchers to find a cure. We need to work together as a society and advocate for the creation of regulation that will put a time limit on frozen embryos as well as expanding federal funding for embryonic stem cell research. References Frequently Asked  NIH Stem Cell Research Funding, FY 2002-2013 [Stem Cell N.p., n.d. Web. 16 March 2017. Giving to the  Donate. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Apr. 2017. In Vitro Fertilization  MedlinePlus Medical Encyclopedia. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 March 2017. Rowley, Janet. Embryonic Stem Cell Research Does Too Much Good to Be Evil, Says Janet  U.S.news. N.p., 23 Mar. 2009. Web. 14 March 2017. Sperm and Embryo  Embryo Freezing (Embryo Cryopreservation) Fertility Preservation. Pacific Fertility Center, n.d. Web. 13 March 2017. The Embryo Project  Dickey-Wicker Amendment, 1996 The Embryo Project Encyclopedia. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 March 2017. Who We  Who We Are Americans For Cures. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Apr. 2017.