Salvinien 1 Camille Salvinien Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 2 March 2017 Rise of Cyberbullying and Related Mental Illnesses As a society, are we proud of the content that is constantly shared on social media platforms? Do we believe that it will benefit the next generation or rather tarnish it? As technology progresses, more and more teenagers have gained access to it. Teenagers nowadays spend more time looking down at their phones than having conversations with human beings. The issue is that as the numbers of social media platforms increased, the rate of mental diseases has grown along with it. Per Schwarz in Mental Health in the United teenagers are most vulnerable therefor being exposed to a harsh and cruel technological world is highly damaging (2009). This resulted in over 32% of adolescents having been bullied online (Lenhart, 2007). Since the 2000s, research surrounding the correlation between mental illnesses and social media amongst teenagers has not changed. The conversation began around the early as social media exploded among teenagers. Progressively, they became the most targeted audience, and the time spent amongst those platforms grew. A research study done by Amanda Lenhart in 2007 demonstrated that 32% of teenagers felt bullied online at one point or another. Whether it was in the form of a threatening message, spreading a rumor or even sharing a private conversation. Lenhart even mentions harassing or behaviors may be truly (para 2). This new form of bullying worried many parents and even doctors, the researchers kept trying to understand what was going on behind those screens. One of the big research done only a Salvinien 2 couple of years later was from Susan W. Schwarz, that highlighted how is the third leading cause of death in adolescents and young (Schwarz, 2009). Suicide rates have never been this high, especially amongst a younger crowd. Tying both research study together, people soon began to understand that putting fragile teenagers in front of a harsh environment such as social media only resulted in deaths and mental illnesses. Years kept passing by, and as social media became a worldwide phenomenon more research came of it. Mariel Norton, in an article for The Next Web, wrote that cases of cyberbullying in 2012-13 compared to 2,410 in were reported (para 7). It is also mentioned that this growing rates are not lowering down anytime soon. The explosion of cyberbullying has been directly linked to mental illnesses and any related issues. The same article by Norton talks about Tallulah Wilson, a young ballerina, who in October 2012 decided to commit suicide. Wilson was clinically depressed and constantly sharing self-harming pictures online with a vast crowd. Norton also mentions that social media does induce peer pressure and the fact that social media is accessible 24/7 does result in a higher addiction therefor damage. Even though, the conversation surrounding the reason for the rise in mental illnesses has not changed overtime people have begun wondering if something else was not impacting it. In an article written by Dr. Watts, the concept of neoliberalism is brought up. The idea that society has created this boxes for people to fit in, what success looks like and if failed has then led individuals to feel unworthy. Dr. Watts mentions birth, we are surrounded by ideals of successful personhood and the good life which we internalize, and compare ourselves (para 3). By this she means that we are born into this society with a high expectation, if people do not meet these requirements they automatically feel unaccomplished which could lead to mental illnesses. The issue is not social media but rather how society has molded it. Overall, Salvinien 3 Dr. Watts ask for society to look at itself in the mirror and potentially try to create an environment for the next generations to properly grow in. As mental illnesses continued rising, and as social media expanded, researchers have become highly interested in the subject. Since the early 2000s, it is proven that these two are correlated even if some have explained the pressure society has created on teens. As different platforms boomed and research was conducted, a conversation was created. Before 2010, people already knew that social media caused an augmentation of mental illnesses but it was only after 2010 that they realized out how big the impact was. Only in the past year, people have thought that the way our society functions could also be impacting the health of teenagers. In the end, it is societies responsibility for what is put out there for the next generations and to make sure it functions properly. The only question we can now ask ourselves is: Has society tried too hard to make people fit in between boxes they originally belong? Salvinien 4 Work Cited Lenhart, Amanda.  Pew Research Center: Internet, Science & Tech. N.p., 27 June 2007. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Norton, Mariel. The Dangerous Impacts of Social Media on Mental  The Next Web. N.p., 27 Sept. 2014. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Schwarz, Susan W. Adolescent Mental Health in the United  National Center for Children in Poverty. Mailman School of Public Health Columbia University, June 2009. Web. 20 Feb. 2017 Watts, Jay, Dr. Social Media Make Teenagers Self-harm, Neoliberalism  The Independent. Independent Print Ltd, 9 Dec. 2016. Web. 05 Feb. 2017.