Conaty 1 Jacob Conaty ENC 1101 Emil Smith April 30th, 2017 Genetically Modified Crops on the Environment Genetically modified crops have been around for decades but with the new technology we have today geneticists have used advanced molecular biology tools to pinpoint the roles of the genes with large effects. (Rieseberg, 2) Modified crops, being so new, have raised many concerns for the environment and the microorganisms that reside in the soil. In recent companies that manufacture these seeds and a few scientists that ran studies on these modified crops have deemed them to be efficient, this is true for developing countries with a lack of food supply, but where they are not needed they are ruining the top soil, fertility, and are contributing to the birth of superbugs and weeds. The creation of genetically modified crops in America is affecting the soil at an unnatural rate. In the article, Crops and Unsustainable Agricultural Practices Destroying our Soil and Food written by Dr. Mercola, he is against the genetically modified crops because he has run studies since the early and has discovered that are running out of topsoil, the layer that allows plants to (Mercola, 1) Dr. Mercola, throughout his career has concluded that we have only about sixty remaining years of topsoil in the world. Forty percent of our soil is classified as degraded or seriously degraded, meaning that the soil is declining in quality caused by improper use usually from agricultural purposed, this is a serious issue considering that in early years the percent of degraded soil was just below twenty-five percent. Many people generally think that the fertility of soil can be regained, and true but the genetically modified crops is making this difficult because soil is being lost at ten to forty times the rate it can be replenished, and our Conaty 2 food production systems are to blame, which epitomized the term (Mercola, 3) Genetically modified crops, although beneficial in food sustainability, are creating many problems for the topsoil which is responsible for growing over seventy percent of the fresh agricultural food. Not only can the genetically modified crops create serious problems to the topsoil but they can also create infertility throughout every layer of soil. In Dr. articles, Crops and Unsustainable Agricultural Practices Destroying our Soil and Food and Chemical Shown to Cause Infertility and discuss how the layers of soil are being affected by these modified crops. The latest research suggests that genetically engineered plant cultivation may seriously disrupt soil ecology by reducing microbial diversity, which decreases soil fertility over time, possibly this could be irreversible. There has been arguments floating around this topic saying that the modified crops are helping the soil condition because when they die the soil soaks in the nutrients from the dead on to fertilize itself. Although, that statement may have some truth new research suggests that this is causing an increase in soil infertility at all layers. The way that dying plants being stripped naturally of its nutrients can create infertility goes like this: genetic elements (vector DNA) are present in all GE plants. This vector DNA enables unrelated microorganism species to mate, but can also be transferred to soil microorganisms. Soil fertility depends on the presence of a diverse blend of microorganisms, all serving different roles in balancing and optimizing the soil. But when unrelated species mate, the soil ecosystem losses diversity, which is proven to damage (Mercola, 7) Until recently the method described above, called the Horizontal Gene Transfer, was only theoretical but we now have the ability to prove its happening. Scientist have run test after test observing in the Conaty 3 field and in labs what happens when the soil and microorganisms absorb the plants nutrients, and what they discovered is that through Horizontal Gene Transfer the genetically engineered crops DNA enables other non-related organisms to mate causing a less diverse blend of nutrients in the soil which causes the soil to lose fertility instead of gaining. In the articles of Genetically Modified Organisms on written by Maria Orton, and the article Effects of Plants Genetically Modified for Insect Resistance on Nontarget  written by M. both discuss how genetically modified crops can create a type of super weed or superbug. In recent years modified crops have been engineered to resist pests and weeds with no use of pesticides or herbicides leading many to think that there is no possible way a superbug or weed can ever exist, but it can and will. According to Maria Orton, superbugs and weeds will become more widely spread because the modified crops are popping up everywhere which show to be resistant to pests and weeds, but this change in biodiversity will lead the pests and weeds to adapt and the engineered crops be enough to stop them. A superbug is a very real threat coming to many crops, superbug occurs when bacteria or viruses have developed a resistance to the chemicals available to treat (Orton, 4), because of this, farmers, will have no choice but to start using stronger and more hazardous pesticides and herbicides to keep their crop alive. In the article, review of pesticide effects on Microorganisms and Microbial Processes Related to Soil written by T.B. Moorman, it discusses how the use of stronger and more effective pesticides and herbicides can kill the good nutrients in the soil as well. This method of distinguishing bugs and weeds from the fields would then create even more problems for them because their crop soil will be unusable for many years. Even though many people believe that these modified crops will reduce the use of pesticides and herbicides because the seeds are Conaty 4 engineered to resist pests, proven that these pests will adapt and be even more destructive to crops than ever been. Genetically modified crops, as mentioned can drain the soil of fertility and contribute to birth of superbugs, but these crops are not all bad. In the article think GMO Plants can help us deal with Climate by Matt Weiser he mentions that modified crops can help developing countries that lie in extreme climates such as the deserts of Africa and the tundra of Siberia cultivate enough food to survive. If these people can get a hold of these crops it will change their lives forever considering one of the number one killers in these regions is hunger. These crops can grow in these regions when other plants die and wither, a specific gene makeup can be put into place to withstand harsh conditions allowing these crops to grow close to year round. (Weiser, 2) With Genetically modified crops starvation in these countries can be to an all-time low. But for first world countries if we use these crops it can worsen our environment in an indescribable way, if we must use these in developed countries limitations must be put into place or be only used when climate change is threatening our naturally grown crops. In conclusion, plenty of articles and studies show evidence of the effects that genetically modified crops have on the environment, we can see that they are playing a huge role in the infertility of the soil, the destruction of the topsoil (first layer used to grow crops), and contributing to a worldwide epidemic of new superbugs and weeds able to resist the crops. Although, genetically modified crops are sufficient in supplying enough food for developing countries is it a chance we are willing to take in first world countries like ours, realizing what damage they can do? Research is always taking place and changing what we know, as of now the topic of genetically modified crops is still being argued about whether they are safe and sufficient for soil and microorganisms or harmful and degrading, and in recent years the evidence is pointing towards harmful and degrading. Conaty 5 Citations: Mercola, Dr. GE Crops Destroy Our Soil and Food  N.p., 12 Jan. 2013. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. M., T. R. Glare, E. P. Burgess, and L. A. Malone. Effects of Plants Genetically Modified for Insect Resistance on Nontarget  Review of U.S. National Library of Medicine, n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Benbrook, Charles M. Impacts of Genetically Engineered Crops on Pesticide Use in the U.S. -- the First Sixteen  Sciences Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 28 Sept. 2012. Web. 02 Apr. 2017 Kane, N. & Rieseberg, L. (2005). Maize genetics: the treasure of the Sierra Madre. Biology, 15 R137-R139. Mercola, Dr. Monsanto Chemical Shown to Cause Infertility and Super  N.p., 2011 Apr. 29. Web. 09 Apr. 2017 Moorman, T. B. 1989. A Review of Pesticide Effects on Microorganisms and Microbial Processes Related to Soil Fertility1. J. Prod. Agric. 2:14-23. doi:10.2134/jpa1989.0014 Weiser, Matt. Scientists Think GMO Crops May Help Us Deal with Climate  Radio Ensue, 13 Jan. 2016. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Conaty 6