Gormley 1 Cassidy Gormley Instructor Alison Missler English Composition 1102 3 May 2017 A Fight for the Animals Are you taking your children to a local Tampa Bay zoo this summer? Zoos could be educational and entertaining; however, have you ever thought about what it would be like to live your life in a cage? These zoo animals are taken from their homes, separated from their families, and are confined to small spaces all for the purpose of human entertainment. Although zoos could be educational, keeping captive that are healthy and able is taking away their chance at a natural life, making captivity immoral. By starting in the Tampa Bay community, you could become a part of something bigger than yourself. The Big Cat Rescue and signing a petition for Busch Gardens to release six elephants to a sanctuary are just two ways you could get involved. To start, many animals are captured from the wild to become zoo animals. They are being taken from their homes and separated from their families. Ran Barkai and Lev are the authors of a study in the Journal of Quaternary Intenational about the kinship groups of elephants. It reads, elephant lives in and has enduring family bonds: groups stay together for straying more than a few yards from one and their offspring require an extended period of depended (Barkai and Lev). This is similar to the mother and baby relationship that humans share. The elephants are living in a different environment than they are used to without their companions. One could only imagine the emotional turmoil the animals go through from this tragic regularity. Gormley 2 In addition to becoming separated from family, the animals bred in zoos are typically sold to the wrong hands. These babies do not know what their future holds for them. Jeffrey P. Cohn, a science writer for the Oxford Journals, wrote, often baby elephants born in zoos are later separated from their mothers and sent to other (Cohn 715). Stories like this happen far too often and a difference must be made. You would not want your child to end up in the wrong hands, living a pitiful life. Animals do not want this for their children nor themselves either. After being torn away from their homes and families, the life keeps getting worse. The conditions the zoo animals are living in are extremely different than the wilderness. The sizes of the exhibits do not compare to the space the animal has to roam in the wild, even in the best conditions. For example, Ken Kawata, author of of a Cage: A Review of American Zoo Exhibits, Part states, polar typical enclosure size is about one- millionth of its minimum home range (Ken Kawata). This is a huge misfortune for many animals. Wild animals like bears, tigers, elephants, and monkeys need space to roam, exercise, and keep themselves occupied. With limited space to do this, the animals start to show symptoms of As well as being treated unfairly, taking them out of the wild has many psychological effects on them. Have you seen a tiger pace back and forth in its cage on your last visit to the zoo? This is an example of Tuyl explains that zoo animals are so bored and unhappy that they exhibit stereotypical behaviors including needless pacing, swaying, rocking, and (12). This is extremely inhumane and unnatural for the animal. Further studies from Oxford University that lions in zoos spend 48% of their time pacing and 40% of elephants performed stereotypic (Tuyl 13). It is clear that animals become Gormley 3 stressed, sick, and even suicidal from the abnormal activity they present which is demonstrated by the death rate of elephants. This is not something to be entertained by, but rather alarmed. Humans should also be alarmed by everything they could do to help zoo animals, but fail to do so. Instead of giving your families money to a zoo this summer, donate your money and time to an animal sanctuary. Rachel Shea of National Geographic states that, promise to take in and care for any animals that have been abused, neglected, or abandoned and to keep them for (Shea). There are many sanctuaries to visit around the country that protect a variety of animals such as apes, elephants, chimps, lions, and more. To start making a difference in your community, visit the Big Cat Rescue, a local sanctuary in Tampa. They rescue a variety of wild cats and give them 55 acres to roam and a home away from abuse (Big Cat Rescue). This would be a great way to spread awareness, as well as receive the educational value you would like to give your children. If you visit the Big Cat Rescue May 5-7, you could receive a free wildcat plush toy for each child. Another way to get involved is to sign a petition against Busch Gardens of Tampa at http://www.thepetitionsite.com/649/972/252/busch-gardens-tampa- release-your-six-elephants-to-sanctuary-no-more-zoos/. It is very close to the goal of 3,000 supporters to release six elephants to a sanctuary. Help make this difference possible and give the elephants another chance at life. By taking your child to a zoo, you are teaching them unfairness. It is not fair to the animals that are being locked up for our own entertainment. It is not fair to the animals that are being deprived of the life they were meant to live in the wild. It is not fair to the animals that are becoming unhealthy due to being held captive. Taking an animal away from his home in the wild is only the beginning of a gigantic downfall. Life in a cage could never compare to life in the wild, no matter the conditions. Starting with your community, you could make a difference Gormley 4 locally and eventually worldwide by spreading awareness. Overall, taking away an right to live wildly is taking away the life completely. Gormley 5 Works Cited About  Big Cat Rescue. Big Cat Rescue, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Cohn, Jeffrey P. Do Elephants Belong In Zoos? Zoos And Animal Welfare Advocates Differ Over Elephants In Captivity. Critics Say Zoos Lack Space To House Elephants. Zoos Argue That They Are Expanding And Improving Exhibits, And That Elephants Live Better In Captivity Than In The Wild With Disease, Drought, Habitat Loss, Poaching, And Conflicts With  Bioscience 9 (2006): 715. Academic OneFile. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Kawata, Ken. Exorcising of a Cage: A Review of American Zoo Exhibits, Part  Wider die Verteufelung des Zur Entwicklung amerikanischer Zooanlagen, Teil III Der Zoologische Garten, vol. 81, 01 Jan. 2012, pp. 132-146. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.zoolgart.2012.05.001. Lev, and Ran Barkai. Elephants Are People, People Are Elephants: Proboscideans Similarities as a Case for Cross Cultural Animal Humanization in Recent and Paleolithic  Quaternary International, vol. 406, no. Part B, 25 June 2016, pp. 239-245. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.quaint.2015.07.005. Shea, Rachel. Are Wildlife Sanctuaries Good for  National Geographic. National Geographic Society, 20 Mar. 2014. Web. 02 May 2017. Tuyl, Christine Van. Zoos and Animal Welfare. Detroit: Greenhaven, 2008. Web. 2 May 2017.