Mcneal 1 Rebecca Mcneal Kevin Ip Composition II 16 April 2017 Get Involved and Educated On NCLB Act The Child Left act has been a big talk in the educational world for years. The Child Left act effects thousands of students, teachers, and parents. The NCLB act was created to make sure every student could get the same educational opportunities and have equal learning experiences. It was also created to close the achievement gap and make sure that every achievement level increased. Although this may have seemed like a good idea the results were the opposite. Some effects being students really learning, they were more being trained to learn how to take test and the material for the test. Teachers really required to teach anymore but to students on how to take test and to tailor their teaching around the material that might be on the test. Teachers able to teach freely how they felt was right for students and was needed for individual students due to not all student being able to learn the same way. Some students were being held back from their potential while others might not have been able to reach their potential due to not being helped as much as they needed or been given the right help. However, with the help from anyone who has to cross paths with the educational school system and have to deal with the Child Left act, we can possible change or make the Child Left act better for everyone. Mcneal 2 The Child Left act was a reform of former President Lyndon B. and Secondary Education that President George signed into law in 2001. According to the U. S Department of Education Child Left act was the new law representing a sweeping overhaul of federal efforts to support elementary and secondary education in the United States. It is built on four common-sense pillars: accountability for results; an emphasis on doing what works based on scientific research; expanded parental options; and expanded local control and flexibility (U.S Department of The Child Left act was supposed to be a thing that benefitted everyone. It was supposed to support learning in the early years which would prevent learning difficulties that might arise later, keep parents updated and involved with their progress, give more resources to schools, and improve teaching and learning (U.S Department of Education). With these good intentions in mind the complete opposite happened. Students had more of a difficult time with learning, parents tell if their child were actually learning, schools provide either enough or any resources for schools, and teachers able to teach how they needed to. Even though the Child Left act may seem like it only affects teachers, students, and parents the Child Left act can actually have some effect on you too. You might have a child one day and they might have to go through what kids today are going through and dealing with when it comes to the Child Left act. Hopefully, as a parent you would want your child to actually be learning, improving and increasing their Mcneal 3 achievement level, so you would be very concern and interested in learning furthermore about the NCLB act. Or you might become a teacher and have to go through with the struggles of having to teach a certain way and not how you might have wanted to or felt was right for your students. Or you could be a student who is going through the situation and the actions of the Child Left When it comes to the Child Left act there are varies ways you can get involved and make the act better or improve it. There are various petitions and movements are going around trying to get the attention of school boards, state leaders, state legislatures, congress, and any higher order who may have any influence and say on making decisions for schools to end, reform, or replace the Child Left You can go onto the website and type in Involved with No child Left and then click on where it says involved- Help Ensure Congress Overhauls No Child Left It will tell you the different ways you can get involved and how to follow through with it. They provide emails, phone numbers, fax numbers, and tips on what to write about or things you should do when you find yourself ready to get involve. You can write letters to your school board or to the congress stating your concerns and what you would like to see happen with in the school systems. You can also write about different ideas or suggestions you might have that you think would benefit and improve the school system. Your ideas and suggestions might be agreed upon or liked and might be implemented or used. You can become more active by putting in new ideas and helping make decisions for schools when they have meetings and congressional meetings on new decisions for schools. Mcneal 4 The Child Left act has negatively affected students, teachers, and parents. The Child Left act has hindered students from reaching their potentials, whether it was the student not being challenged enough or the student getting enough help or the right help that was needed. The NCLB act has made it harder for teachers to actually teach and made it harder for them to teach the best way they feel is right for their students. While students and teachers are mostly effected by the Child Left act, so are parents. Parents really certain or sure of their progress and are worried about if their child is really learning. Being informed and educated is just the first step of trying to make the situation better for students, teachers, and parents but just not enough to change or fix the problem. When you become involved and take action towards fixing the problem this is when you are making a possible change and difference, which is the most important and biggest step. So now that you are a little bit more educated on the issue, go out and become active and make a change or difference. Mcneal 5 Works Cited Esea. No Child Left Behind Act of  Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction. N.p., 01 Jan. 2011. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Fletcher, Adam. How Decisions Are Made In  SoundOut. Adam Fletcher, 15 Feb. 2016. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Get Involved Help Ensure Congress Overhauls No Child Left  Get Involved Help Ensure Congress Overhauls No Child Left Behind FairTest. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Introduction: No Child Left  Home. US Department of Education (ED), 19 Dec. 2005. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Petition by Traci Rubner, and Petition by Traci Rubner. Sign the petition: Repeal No Child Left  in favor of a holistic approach to  MoveOn Petitions. Traci Rubner, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Yell, M.L. The Purpose of No Child Left  Education.com. M.L. Yell, 20 July 2010. Web. 14 Apr. 2017.