Zhengyu 1 Zhengyu Liu ENC 1101 Anastasia J. Khawaja 4/30/2017 Social media and conversation According to Benjamin article History of Social Media: Social Networking social media has become one of the most popular terms that almost everyone knows it, and probably imagine living without it However, as an important role in the world today, social media just has a short history of development. People usually consider Six Degrees which was launched in 1997 as the first modern social network because it was the first social media that allowed users to add friends and connect each other. After that, social media got into a process of rapid development up to now. With the popularization of social media, it began to effect people in many ways. There is no doubt that social media brings both positive and negative effects to people whether people use it or not. But as the most popular way that people choose to communicate with others today, social media has a great development prospect and it seems that no one can stop it. So, social media brings more positive effects to people than its negative effects. The ways people treat social media should be considered more on its advantages and how to remove its negative impacts. After the birth of social media in 1997, social media became more and more popular with the popularization of the internet. the year 2000, around 100 million people had access to the internet, and it became quite common for people to be engaged socially Social media gradually became the major way people choose to Zhengyu 2 communicate with others. Compared with traditional ways of communication, such as join party, club, sodality or chat with others by letters and telephones, social media has incomparable advantages. has never been easier to make friends than it is right now, mainly thanks to social networking Social media connects the world together by internet and allows its users to make friends with different kinds of people that they are interested in. People may have hundreds of friends social media such as Facebook and some of them may never meet with each other. But it cannot effects them to be friends and take interacts because social media connects them together from different areas in the world. Besides the internet, smart phone is another important factor promoting the development progress of social media. It allows people to communicate with others or take interacts with your friends online easily in fast pace of life today. Social media not only brings people a convenient platform to communicate each other, but also give them more possibilities. In the past, social platforms are monotonous. For an example, the telephone a very medium, able to transfer only voice, hence poorer in conveying 798). Compared to social experience on telephone, social media has colorful functions to show its users more and make the communication become interesting. Social media allows people to share their lives on it in order to rich the communication. Some social networks gather specific groups of people who are interested in article writing, game exchanging or sharing of music, video and photos. These social networks provide people different platforms to get higher quality of communication experience because they are able to empathize with each other. In addition to its colorful functions, social media also all the communication and interaction Kingston ). Social media brings more Zhengyu 3 possibilities to people not only reflects in it can show people more on communication, but also reflects in it gives more people possibilities to do communicate with others. Such as people who rely on their natural speech to meet their communication needs in face-to-face (Jessica & Janice 680). Jessica Carona and Janice Lighta provide share the information about how social media help people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis communicate with others in their article World Has Expanded Even Though Stuck at People in this groups face speech intelligibility issues that negatively affect their overall communication & Janice 680), but social media gives them possibilities to do communicate easily, by its colorful functions and its broad social platform. Great mobility, interactivity and rich functions , possibilities make social media become the most popular way people choose to do communicate today, and it will still be the important social platform with its development in the future. However, when social media brings so many advantages to our communication, there are still many people believe that social media is damaging their lives. of the negative effect of social media or network is it leads to Kingston). Many people usually spend many hours on social media everyday, and it effects their lives a lot because social media diverts too much their attention from their lives or works. It is true that today a lot of people become slaves to the cell phone because of social media, they look at their phones and pay attention to their social media the whole day. However, their terrible lives are based on they did not use social media wisely. In addition to this, someone hates social media because many people feel it is easier to communicate with others on social media than do it in reality, such as some kids do not how to behave in Zhengyu 4 a face-to-face F). But in short, it according to the incorrectly ways they use social media. Actually, social media is just the tool to help people do communicate easily and rich their lives instead of the way to replace the realistic society. After all, social media brings negative effects not because social media is evil, it ties in the way people use it. It cannot be used in place of real connections between people whatever how wonderful it is. Social media is disputed as a double-edged sword, but in generally it owns more positive effects and helps people a lot. It brings more possibilities to communication and connects the whole world together. Today social media is the essential part of modern lives, and of course, it will still be the important way for people to communicate with others and connect themselves to the world in the future. Zhengyu 5 Works Cited Ali Kingston, Mwila. and Negative Effects of Social Media on Linked in. Web. 31 Oct. 2015. Amit M., Schejter. the meek, seek the Social media and social Telecommunications Policy. Volume 39, Issue 9(2015): Web. Oct. 2015. Benjamin, Hale. History of Social Media: Social Networking History Cooperative. Web. 16 Jun. 2015. Dave, Parrack. Positive Impact Of Social Networking Sites On MakeUseOf. Web. 19 Apr. 2012. Jessica Carona & Janice Lighta. World Has Expanded Even Though Stuck at American Journal of Speech-Language Pathology (2015):680-691. Print. 01 Nov. 2015. Regina F., Graham. Social Media Causing A To Take Cbslocal. Web. 16 Apr. 2014.