Meqwar !1 Husain Meqwar Instructor Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101.001 29 January 2017 Euthanasia Euthanasia in the contemporary world has been used on people who are terminally ill. There have been ethical issues on the use of this phenomenon on people, and different parts of the world do not accept this action. Euthanasia involves the killing of individuals whose chances of recovery are close to zero. In the English law, the acts of euthanasia and assisted suicide are against the law. There are different types of euthanasia one of them is active euthanasia which involves another person doing the act of killing by deliberately injecting or administering a dose into the patient. The other type is called passive euthanasia which involves causing the death of a person by treatment withdrawal (Dinchi, 2010). Different cases occur which includes voluntary euthanasia in which the patient is asked whether that is what they want. The involuntary euthanasia is a case where individuals may be killed when they were not willing to die, and non-voluntary is a case where individuals are in a position in which they cannot say anything due to the severity of their illness and hence allows the family members be responsible for decision making (Dinchi, 2010). Over the years there has been an argument on the appropriateness of the use of this method to reducing pain and suffering on patients. The main problem is do we have the right to take life even by such delicate method as euthanasia? Chaloner, C., & Sanders, K. (2007, May 16). Euthanasia: The legal issues. 21(36), 42-46. Retrieved from EBSCOhost Meqwar !2 Chris Chaloner is the professor at University of East Anglia, Norwich with expertise in Medicine and Karen Sanders is the Chair of the Ethics Forum of the Royal College of Nursing in England. They provide views on the legal issues about euthanasia and recommend that changes should be made in the laws that operate around the phenomenon. Challenger and Sanders also provide views from the nurses that revolve around the use of euthanasia on patients. They discuss the need for the change in the laws of the land that view the act as illegal to help the society deal with certain health cases that have occurred. The general argument is that people are usually jumping into conclusion about euthanasia using their emotions and not considering the reality and facts that are presented to them over the idea. The authors believe that when people are enlightened about euthanasia and the whole idea behind it they will accept it more easily than those that have not well grasped the concept. The article focuses on providing an information surrounding the use of euthanasia on patients and helping people that are against it to slowly embrace the idea. The article also encourages medical practitioners to provide evidence to the clients and not base their talk on opinions. A right to death, surely, as much as a right to  Sydney Morning Herald [Sydney, 22 Oct. 2012: 10. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Oct. 2012. The Sydney Morning Herald (SMH) is a well known newspaper in Australia. It was Founded in 1831 and it is the oldest continuously published newspaper in there. The article from SMH focuses on the idea that an individual has the right to his life and is able to decide whether he wants to end it or not when he is unable to perform daily activities or function normal and have no hope of recovery. The author states that the use of euthanasia gives the patients dignity and provides a better option for the families to reduce the pain and agony of the loved ones that come with the ailment process. The article focuses on the cases in Australia where people suffering from terminal diseases are left in homes to die and can instead be given a quick and dignified send off to reduce Meqwar !3 their suffering. The author suggests that everyone has the right to determine the way he wants to operate and choose what is right for him. Why should we allow ourselves to live in pain and agony if there is a way of ending it? The author specifically focuses on the use of voluntary euthanasia as the best way for someone to choose the time and way that he wants to use to finish his life. Dinchi, J. (2010, June 7). with The Baltimore Sun. Retrieved from http://www.finalexitnetwork.org This article by Dinchi focuses on the aspect of assisted suicide, this is a long standing concept which has a close relationship to euthanasia. It focuses on the actions of a doctor who assisted his patients when they were ill to die in a peaceful manner as they were seen to be suffering from their illness. The doctor realises that his patients were suffering too much, so he performed euthanasia on them and ended their lives. Despite the solution being a better move for the patients, the doctor was charged with the offence and convicted on the ground of this matter. The whole idea behind this is that the doctor was helping the patients avoid the ongoing pain by ending their lives but some people view it differently. The ending of life according to the article is not a crime as long as the doctor makes sure that the patients die without any pain being experienced. Using these factors, author supports certain methods of taking the life as better options than others. The ethical issue of euthanasia is quite different depending on the understanding of an individual about the problem. The article implies that assisted suicide is a way that helps people to die with some dignity. The pain should not be theirs during this process. Chadwick, Ruth.  Encyclopedia of Science, Technology, and Ethics. Ed. Carl Mitcham. Vol. 2. Detroit: Macmillan Reference USA, 2005. 710-713. Gale Virtual Reference Library. Web. 29 Oct. 2012. URL:http://go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?id=GALE Meqwar !4 Ruth Chadwick is Distinguished Research Professor and Director of the ESRC Centre for Economic and Social Aspects of Genomics and a Chair of the Human Genome Organisation Ethics Committee. Her article analyses the meaning of the word euthanasia and explains how it has been used in the contemporary world to deal with people who are suffering from different disabilities and terminal illnesses. The concerns raised in the article are that some of the individuals who prefer euthanasia are those who can survive using medication but prefer to die instead. According to the article, a lot of patients face the financial issue during the illness and the cost of life can be too high and unaffordable for them, that is why they are looking for the alternative and euthanasia is one of them. Novak, D. (2007). sanctity of human (pp. 111-160). Washington, DC: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY PRESS. David Novak is a theologian, ethicist and scholar of Jewish philosophy and law. Novak has authored 16 books and more than 200 articles in scholarly journals. sanctity of human the author analyses the issue of euthanasia from different perspectives. The book takes a look at the matter from ideological views such as religion and philosophy while also include the political aspects that may be involved in the issue. The author has the belief that society is viewing this issue very wrongly and that we should not even be considering the performance of euthanasia on patients. The main basis of his argument is using religion as the benchmark and stating religious teachings as restrictions against the taking of life before their time. He believes that euthanasia is a form of murder hidden behind the medical aspects and a wrong solution to terminal cases. The author is quite stern on his stand on the issue and strongly against the idea. He tries to use various examples and views to explain his perspective on euthanasia. The book also links the philosophical nature of the idea of religion and politics to show how they share certain beliefs regarding the idea of euthanasia. Taking life from an individual should be left to the divine, and it Meqwar !5 should come at the right time when it is supposed to come, these are the ideas that Novak is pushing. Brennan, Frank. on the Euthanasia Slippery Slope: THE MEDDING Eureka Street21.12 (2011)18-21. Academic Search Complete. Web. 29 Oct. 2012 Frank Brennan is professor of law at the Public Policy Institute, Australian Catholic University and adjunct professor at the College of Law and the National Centre for Indigenous Studies, Australian National University. This article analyses the ethical issues surrounding euthanasia and the historical context that lies behind the idea. Different cases have been addressed where the patients were tired of suffering and asked the doctors to prescribe dosages of deadly drugs that will kill them. The focus of this article is Oregon, where a lot of patients requested to be killed with no pain and a significant number of them have received what they asked for. The author also examines the perspective of the health officials in the state of Oregon and realises that most of them agree with the action and support it. The hospital in that area had a doctor that helped patients to die peacefully according to their wish unfortunately he died couple years ago. Reports on the issue however turned differently as some newspapers suggested that the doctor had murdered a large number of patients. The problem that came up was the suggestion that not all of the patients who asked for euthanasia were terminally ill. The article represents different views that people have on the idea of taking life when he or she is helpless and shows how society judges such actions depending on values and beliefs that it has.