Meneghel 1 Artur Meneghel Ins. Ashely Tisdale ENC1101-008 29 January 2017 Marijuana Legalization: Why Not? Marijuana legalization has been a trending topic for the last 20 years, but especially since 2014 when Alaska, Colorado, Oregon, Washington, Washington DC legalized the recreational use of cannabis. People have been discussing more and more over this matter. On the other hand, the medicinal use of the as of today, has been legalized in 28 states. But the bigger issue is that the DEA, the agency responsible for all drug problems in the U.S.A still considers cannabis as a Schedule 1 drug, which means that they think weed is more addictive than other drugs such as cocaine and methamphetamine. These are considered Schedule 2 drugs, even though there are several research pieces that prove that marijuana is not only less addictive than cocaine and meth, but also proves that it is less addictive than other licit drugs such as alcohol and nicotine. On the bright side these last couple of years have been good for the legalization movement, lots of data has been gathered, data that proves that the drug is not as bad as people think. Less than 100 years ago you could buy weed as an over the counter medicine, which may lead one to wonder how something that was a dispensed like Tylenol, started being considered as something worse than meth. So why is marijuana still illegal to this date, even though there is plenty of research demystifying the stigmas behind this drug? Ours, Jan C. Van, and Jenny Williams. Cannabis Use And Its Effects On Health, Education And Meneghel 2 Labor Market  University of Journal of Economic Surveys 29.5 (2014): 993-1010. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This article talks about many different researches about Cannabis use in general, and about the effects of cannabis on health, on their education and labor market success. The article includes a table that shows the rates and at what age do people start consuming weed in different countries. It also shows perspectives that I thought of before, such as comparing drug use to wages, when talking about labor market success and the use of cannabis. The part of the article that talks about health is replete of information on researches made trying to connect the use of Marijuana to different diseases. The article has a very informative approach, meaning that it does not express much opinion and its main purpose is to inform, but the information included will support my thesis that cannabis should be legalized. Most of the information especially on the health part shows that the consumption of weed is not related, or the relation is unclear, with many diseases and mental issues people associate with the usage of the drug. The article also has lots of basic information and statistics on cannabis that will help me introduce these facts to those people who are unaware of them. Ingraham, Christopher. legal weed market: $700 million in sales last year, $1 billion by  The Washington Post. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017 This article talks about the revenue Colorado made in 2014, only from marijuana sales, they collected U$63 million only from taxes, and projections showed that by the year of 2016 the Meneghel 3 marijuana business will be a 1-billion-dollar industry. The article also presents three different informative graphs, that show cannabis sales by month, by county, and tax revenue by month, for the year of 2014, first year of legalization in Colorado. At the end of the article the author gives us some information about the struggles the people who work in the marijuana business, because of the difference between State and Federal laws. The information on this article will help me strengthen my arguments on my paper, especially when talking about the benefits of legalizing marijuana for those who do not smoke. Also, the article brings the DEA scheduling issue for cannabis, such as the trouble growers and retailers go through because of this discrepancy between Federal and State laws. The article also mentions that the Federal government has been taking steps, even though they are small ones, to integrate the cannabis Industry. The best part about this article is that it is a recent article, with recent news, and the journal is also from a State where weed is legalized. Welsh, Jennifer, and Kevin Loria. 23 Health Benefits Of  Business Insider. Business Insider, 20 Apr. 2014. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. This article talks about 23 health benefits that marijuana provides its patients with. The information is more explanatory than statistical. Business insider, managed to show good research sources, that are extremely credible. The topics discussed through the paper range from simply making you more creative, while under the effect of the drug, to helping stop cancer from spreading. The article even talks about a research that says that weed might be able to protect the brain from concussions and traumas in sports, such as football. But the question now is should cannabis be legalized only for those who already are sick, and in need of the treatment, or should everyone be able to start preventing those diseases to spread, using recreational marijuana. Meneghel 4 This article will help me support my thesis, because it shows many benefits of medicinal marijuana, for patients, and for people who are trying to prevent diseases, or maybe just trying to have a better life quality. The information presented by the authors is recent, so maybe there is just a lack of sharing, that is keeping people from seeing what cannabis can do for someone, but going to try and change that. Paulson, Amanda. legalization: big wins in California and The Christian Science Monitor 10 Nov 2016: ProQuest. Web. 11 Feb 2017. This article talks about the more recent news about marijuana, especially with Donald Trump now running the office, in this last election many states voted for legalizing both medicinal and recreational cannabis, with wins in most states the marijuana movement is stronger than ever before. The paper also sums up the political scenario for cannabis legalization, what is the future of the movement, what are the next steps, who are the biggest and so on. Another important point that the author brings up is that from 2011 to 2016 the number of Americans who supported legalization went up by 10 percent. The article is filled with basic information on cannabis, but that I know it is accurate, so that will help me through the paper. Also, this is my first source that talks about politics, and what the political stance of the country towards this issue, especially because of the current President of the United views can be a little confusing sometimes, it is also good to understand where does his crew for administration stands. The article is also good because it is very partial, which means it express much opinion, its main purpose is to inform and expose the facts. Kelly, Erin. Why More Athletes Are Turning to  Greatist. Greatist, 14 Oct. 2016. Web. Meneghel 5 19 Feb. 2017. This article talks about a not usual benefit of marijuana, which is the consumption of the drug, by any method, before or after working out. This new trend has become popular in the last recent years, the athletes who are trying range from runners to bodybuilders, the plant brings many benefits with its moderate use conciliated to sports. The article talks more specifically about a New York runner called Andrew, who has been using marijuana before and after working his workouts, it helps him enjoy the running better, and he gets less sore. The credibility of this source is good because, it just talks about a new trend and the personal feedback of one of its followers. The information on the article will help me add one more benefit to the use of cannabis. Also, another proof that marijuana consumption can be directly associated with a healthy and productive lifestyle, if wanted. Another good point brought up by the article is that there are many synthetic drugs, that athletes use, that weed could substitute, and it is less harmful too. Lastly the article talks about the debate going on whether weed should be considered a performance enhancing drug or not, which is a good discussion to bring up. Healy, Jack. After 5 Months of Sales, Colorado Sees the Downside of a Legal  The New York Times. The New York Times, 31 May 2014. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This article starts talking about some of the issues of legal weed, such as driving under the influence of marijuana, and marijuana edibles overdose, and the drug getting to the hands of kids, or out of the state. The article then talks about some of the benefits since legalizing, such as the drop in the percentage of robberies and the tax income for the state. Some incidents where weed was involved are listed later in the article, but they necessarily relay on the presence of weed, or legal weed, there are many external factors which could have influenced those events. The Meneghel 6 credibility of the author is great because this is a New York Times article, which is a big journal with a great reputation. I chose an article that contradicts my thesis to see if I could add some negative sides, to be realistic, even though the article still mentions some benefits of legalization. After analyzing the negative sides and the incidents, presented by the article, I realized that most of them are influenced by external factors. I might still use information contained in these articles for comparison.