Meqwar 1 Husain Meqwar Instructor Ashely Tisdale Composition 1 26 March 2017 Euthanasia The topic of euthanasia is very contradicting since, with the development of technologies, medical service and the general speed of life, health system views euthanasia differently in different periods of time. Without a doubt, this action can alleviate the pain, help them to stop suffering. Generally, euthanasia is employed when the patient has an illness very difficult or even impossible to cure or when there is no point in continuing treatment since the patient will only suffer. Many scholars and medical workers see euthanasia as a means of helping those who will not have success in treatment. However, there is no unanimous opinion about euthanasia: some people consider it as the last option and others completely support it as a thing that helps terminally ill people to avoid suffering. One of the scholars who disagree with applying euthanasia is Novak who wrote sanctity of human and shared his opinion with all health systems, which is that people should not utilize euthanasia to die or even do it with their hands. Novak sees euthanasia as murder since, in his opinion, nobody should take life, only God. He writes: It did make me more aware of the sanctity of human life, how [precious every child 124). This opinion has a right to exist since Novak is convinced that people have to die only when their natural time comes. Medical workers violate the natural laws taking the life of the person before his natural death occurs, that is why many people are against this idea(Novak 135). Before the medicine was strongly developed and not so modernized as it is now, many hospitals had a right to do euthanasia to lessen sufferings because the medicine was helpless in many cases. Today, we have more variants to fight the majority of the diseases and sometimes it is necessary to wait for the remedy. Meqwar 2 In the second decade of twenty-first-century people were scared of euthanasia but saw no other alternatives for their and their close lives. What is more, if somebody considered it to be the violation of the natural rights, others had less knowledge to understand the point of the procedure. In their article with Dinchi expresses another point of view on euthanasia. The point is that with the time different diseases occurred and some of them were impossible to treat that is why many medical workers considered euthanasia as releasing pain. Dinchi states that it is better to die without feeling any pain than cry and suffer during the whole life. What is more, in 2010, euthanasia was not seen as an attempt to kill people and without permission to end their lives but their rescue. Then it was not a murder but the easiest way to save people from helplessness, from being a burden for their families and considering their life useless (Dinchi 5).Furthermore, many medical workers convinced the relatives that euthanasia is a way to die in a worthy and calm way rather than feeling sharp pain or screaming. God gives us our life, but at that time people believed that he would not like his people to suffer if there was a way to pass away with dignity. To continue, euthanasia is a dubious process since on the one hand life is taken, but on the other hand, a person is saved from agony and suffering. In world, everything concerning it has changed but not considerably. Earlier, euthanasia was supposed to be allowed from the point it could help people to stop suffering while now, people decide for themselves whether they want to live with their pain or they want to die since there is no chance for recovery. The article right to die, surely, as much as a right to claims that people are free to choose their way and if they want to end it by euthanasia than it is their wish. The most important is that patients have a right in what way and where they want to die. The author is convinced that in world, euthanasia is a normal phenomenon since people see it as a better variant than slowly dying being left by their relatives. hope that one day a compassionate society will recognize voluntary euthanasia as the dignified way to end a life no longer worth (Sydney Morning Meqwar 3 Herald). Still, some institutions are concerned about it because in many cases doctors make mistakes and apply euthanasia to people who can be treated. The matter is that nowadays it is allowed to ask the medicines for euthanasia but only for those who are terminally ill (Brennan 20). To sum up, the problem of euthanasia has changed considerably, but the point is that for all the times, there will be people who support it and those who consider it to be a murder. Euthanasia will exist, and it is important because not everybody can accept the life illness, but all the cases should be thoroughly examined. It is possible that the opinions about euthanasia will change with the decades because of the process of modernization and innovations in the healthcare system. Meqwar 4 Works cited Dinchi, J. with The Baltimore Sun. 7 June 2010. Retrieved from http://www.finalexitnetwork.org. Novak, D. . sanctity of human (pp. 111-160). Washington, DC: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY PRESS. 2007 A right to death, surely, as much as a right to  Sydney Morning Herald [Sydney, 22 Oct. 2012: 10. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Oct. 2012 Brennan, Frank. on the Euthanasia Slippery Slope: THE MEDDING Eureka Street21.12 (2011) 18-21. Academic Search Complete. Web. 29 Oct. 2012