Delbecq 1 Paul Delbecq Anastasia Khawaja ENC1101 30 April 2017 The Evolution of the Benefits of Martial Arts Martial arts is the system of combat practices that were originally created for self- defense, military, and law enforcement applications, as well as for spiritual and entertainment purposes (Neil,18). Nowadays, there are many martial arts schools available, in addition to numerous resources online. The rise of martial arts in combat is a reflection of the progress, which our society has made based on efficiency, entertainment, and athleticism. With the change in social construction and principles, the present-day combat of martial arts resonates in rise. The new systemization of martial arts combats in the spheres of fitness, art competition, and art performance are under global spotlight. The benefits of martial arts remain the same as they were before, however the focus of them has drifted away from spirituality and discipline to efficiency of combat and athleticism during the last century. This evolution of martial art made a beneficial impact on the physical and psychological health of the performances. According to the book Arts for written by Jenifer Lawler, four decades ago martial arts teachers were more focused on teaching discipline and spiritual values through katas, forms and traditions. These forms were often a way to practice without any opponent. This was a problem, since practitioners have had no real experience when needed to use their skills to defend or to attack in the real life (Lawler, 43). And it was again a problem because it had less physical impact as they were not doing competition or sparing sessions like nowadays. Delbecq 2 However, nowadays martial arts have a greater focus on the efficiency of combat and athleticism. As a result, the martial artists are healthier, both: mentally and physically. Martial arts have many health benefits, especially on cardiovascular health. It is a high-aerobic art that requires good stamina. As a result, it lowers cholesterol and blood pressure. There are physical benefits of martial arts. According to Jenifer Lawler, martial arts also increases strength, because a martial artist has to use every muscle group in the body while improving balance (Lawler, 47). According to the book Kune written by Bruce Lee, Balance is the first thing you learn in order to have power in the strikes or to avoid take downs to not lose a fight. As a consequence of all the health benefits that martial arts provide, It increases the energy of the practitioner (Lawler, 64). According to the book Bruce Commentaries on the Martial Way martial arts also has great psychological impacts, such as improved self-confidence, because you learn how to keep your composure in different situations when people are sometimes physically in danger or just doing tasks that are difficult for them at first. It instills self-confidence, reinforces the personality, and develops strong values and disciplines to the martial artist. Moreover, it helps to maintain life in a more peaceful and stress-free manner. According to history of the martial arts, Bruce Lee was the most athletic and efficient martial artist of his time. He has still considered as the father of modern martial arts. He supported the idea that the martial arts of that time were very limited in terms of fighting in a real situation, because of the lack of sparing session and competition. Nowadays, martial arts have gone through positive changes in a positive way by improving efficiency of combat. Athleticism is more useful and important now than focusing on discipline of technique. It is often not applicable in real combat, so by focusing on athleticism rather than the spiritual aspect, artists automatically improved their physical and Delbecq 3 mental health just by pushing their body harder. Athletic skills have an impact on the mental and physical health and general well-being of a person (Lawler, 53). According to the book Martial Arts as A Model for Nonviolence: Resisting Interpersonal Violence With Assertive Force written by Thomas, Steve. In the 21th century, there are more cases of injury among martial artists than few decades ago. Due to the increase in competition and focus on efficiency of combat and physical application of martial arts in competitions and sparing sessions. One aspect of the sport these days is there are more cases of injury reported among the martial artists than ever before. These injuries do affect the body. As for example, if you get kicked on the leg or if you break your arm by falling, you can even get injured on the brain by multiple strikes in the head or by knockout because of a powerful strike in the head. When somebody gets knockout, he has to recover for a long time before being able to fight again. Those injuries can then impact the martial artist in a negative ways: physically and mentally. This happens mostly during a competition or a sparing training: it is a form of training that consists of fighting with a partner, without trying to hurt the opponent. However, there is still risk of injuries. Even though it has been proven that nowadays there are higher rates of injury than decades ago, sparing and competition are still the best way to truly enjoy the feeling of combat adrenaline and get better in combat and also be stronger physically and mentally. Doing sparing task and competition improves athleticism, whereas training results in efficiency of combat, the overall well-being greatly depends on discipline and spirituality. Even though martial arts nowadays poses a higher risk of injuries, the benefits of focusing on the physical aspect and efficiency of combat of the martial art triumphs of over the risk of injuries in the long run. Eventhough spirituality and discipline are very important for martial artists, athleticism and efficiency are the most important factors for psychological Delbecq 4 and physical health. Martial arts practioners are guaranteed personal safety, good mental and physical health. Work cited Delbecq 5 ATLARELIGION Database with ATLASerials. Web 29 Jan. 2017 Ertonghen, Jikkemien, and Marc Theeboom. The Social-Psychological Outcomes Of Martial Arts Practise Among Youth: A  Journal Of Sports Science & Medicine 9.4 (2010): 528-537. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Horton, Neil. Japanese Martial Arts, Chichester: ePubDirect, 2005. eBook Collection (EBSCOhost). Web.29 Jan. 2017. Lawler, Jennifer. Martial arts for dummies. New York: Wiley Pub., 2003.Print Lee, Bruce, and John R. Little. Bruce Lee: Jeet Kune Do: Bruce Commentaries on the Martial Way: Editorial Paidotribo, 2007. Print. Thomas, Steve. Martial Arts as A Model for Nonviolence: Resisting Interpersonal Violence With Assertive Force. The Conrad Grebel Review 33 ;1 (2015) :72-91.