Jenkins 1 Skye Jenkins 13 April 2017 Sarah Basil Educating, Empowering, Engaging GMOs If you have eaten today, the chances of that food being a GMO is very high. GMO stands for genetically modified organism where the genome of the organism has been modified to make the DNA genes higher than normal. Farmers genetically modify food so that the supply will be greater as the population is too high for the farmers to supply non-GMO crops. Since GMOs were only introduced to grocery store shelves in 1994, people have not yet learned how harmful they are to humans. Monsanto is one of the biggest agriculture companies that genetically modifies seeds for farmers to grow. There have been many cases reported of sickness due to crops (Theintercept). The Against is one of the biggest non- GMO events there is. This year, it will take place on May 20 th right here in Tampa. As part of the USF community, you should participate in the march because it will show that you care about what you put into your body. For the past twenty-three years, the government has tried to pass off genetically modified food as normal food. As previously stated, there have been many reports of consumers getting ill after eating foods with traces of an herbicide commonly known as Roundup simply kills weeds and grass but is also making humans ill. The genetically modified crops that are produced by farmer can withstand the Roundup so they do not die, humans cannot withstand it. In the last twenty years of Roundup, there have been connections between people getting sick and them having higher levels of glyphosate, what Roundup is made of (Theintercept). Some of the health problems attributed to this are birth defects, Jenkins 2 cancer, diabetes, and many more. Monsanto not only produces genetically modified crops, but they also produce a commonly known weed and grass killer that can not only kill the weeds and grass, but also those who eat it (Theintercept). Brands like Snyders Pretzels, GoGo Squeez and Simply Balanced are all GMO-free and can be found at your local target. Chipotle has recently decided to cut GMOs out of their food. On their website, they have an entire page devoted to telling their customers why they went GMO free. They state that food we serve should be made with ingredients raised with care for animals, farmers, and the environment. doubtful that the GMO ingredients that used to be in our food meet these (G-M-Over It). They go on to list the three main reasons they cut out genetically modified food. The reasons are that scientists have not evaluated long-term effects, GMOs can damage the environment, and their quest is to serve the best ingredients (G-M-Over It). Being the first company to use non-GMO ingredients back in 2015, Chipotle has made an impact and there will be restaurants following in their path. One geneticist, Dr. David Suzuki, is against the GMO industry. In one interview, Suzuki says that we are unable to see the consequences of GMOs over a long enough period of time to say if they are okay or not. Therefore, we are guinea pigs of an experiment by consuming these genetically modified crops (Professor). In short, scientists are trying to see if GM food does have an effect on our body by slipping genetics into our food. He states that the biotechnology allows us to make foods that should not be made. Suzuki goes on to say that just because the size of the gene is so miniscule, that mean it can harmfully effect a human body (Professor). On the contrary, the past few years many people have started to realize how bad GMOs are for us and have taken a stand against them. The Non-GMO Project is an organization whose mission is to preserve and build sources of non-GMO products, educating consumers and Jenkins 3 providing verified non-GMO choices (Mission). On the Non-GMO Project website, they state that developed nations do not consider GMOs to be safe and have significant restrictions or outright bans on the production and sale of (GMO Facts). Some of these countries include Poland, Scotland, Peru and Saudi Arabia, but the list goes on (GM). Any country that does not need GMOs to maintain its population will not produce them, as they are not safe. Maintaining the population means producing enough food for the people that live there, this is mainly for overpopulated countries, like the United States, China and the United Kingdom. The Non-GMO Project has come up with a logo that is prominent on all packaging so those who wish to eat non-GMO can do so and find items quickly in the grocery store. The Non-GMO Project was started in 2007 and has since created over 3,000 verified non-GMO brands. This project is a simple way to eat non-GMO by simply look for the Project logo in the grocery store. Being a young college student, what you put in your body will matter in the long run. As there is no information on the long term effects of GMOs, be careful when eating them and try not to eat them at all. We are being used as guinea pigs against our own will as we eat them. Try new things such as organic foods and eating at Chipotle, it may end up benefiting you in the future. As a USF student, you can make a difference and change your eating habits. One way to do this is go to the March Against Monsanto the more people involved, the more likely it is that this atrocious company will be shut down by OSHA. Another way to get involved is to sign a petition to get non-GMO food options in dining halls ( https://www.change.org/p/usf-get- usf-to-offer-non-gmo-options-in-dining-halls ). There are many things you can do to change it, the change just has to start with you. Jenkins 4 In all, GMOs are not good for you or the environment. As previously stated, there is no information on whether or not they are harmful. The fact that a world renowned geneticist is not eating GMOs should tell you how harmful they secretly are. The DNA that they put into the seeds to make the food larger is not safe. Make a difference and stop eating GMOs; it may benefit you in the long run. Jenkins 5 Works Cited GM Crops Now Banned in 38 Countries Worldwide - Sustainable Pulse Sustainable Pulse. N.p., 01 Nov. 2015. Web. 29 Apr. 2017. GMO  Non-GMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. G-M-Over  Chipotle. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. March Against Monsanto  March Against Monsanto. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017.  Non-GMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. David Suzuki speaks out against YouTube, 29 Nov. 2014. Web. 29 Apr. 2017. Theintercept. New Evidence About the Dangers of The Intercept. N.p., 17 May 2016. Web. 29 Apr. 2017.