Uzoegwu 1 Uzoegwu Kelechi ENC 1102 Kevin Ip April 17, 2017. Public Education in America An analysis of the controversy surrounding the election of Betsy DeVos as the new Secretary of Education provides evidence that the engaged stakeholders are primarily concerned with the dysfunctional model and the unsatisfactory nature of the public education system in the United States of America. The primary stakeholders, identified as Secretary Betsy DeVos, her supporting entities and Liberal Americans, are unable to reach an effective compromise as a result of the extreme differences that exist within their separate agendas. While most Liberal Americans have a more defensive approach, Betsy DeVos is more offensive. In simpler terms, Liberals support making a long term investment to fix the internal issues in the public education system while Best DeVos strives to redirect funds to produce immediate results. Simply put, she wants to redirect public school funds to fund voucher program and charter schools (Weller 1). Although, the engaged stakeholders have separate plans, they both acknowledge that there is a chronic problem present in the education that is deeply rooted in the internal structure of the American School structure. Although both stakeholders support school choice, the government must prioritize public education system as it is the most popular form of education used in the United States and in most cases, it is the most conducive option for American families. Based on standing evidence, it is easy to see that in order to effectively manage public education in the United States, we must become actively involved in the process to pass bill H.R. 899, which is Uzoegwu 2 intended to abolish the department of education, by signing a supportive petition and raising awareness concerning the bill. Education is the backbone of every nation and it can further be described as the building block of every successful nation. There are many reasons why the department of education needs to be abolished and many reasons why this decision should be a priority to every American civilian. According to their website, the Department of Education is a cabinet structured subset of the United States government which was founded and signed into law in 1979 by President Jimmy Carter (U.S. Department of Education 1). The United States Department of Education states, in its mission, that its primary goal is to student achievement...by fostering educational but it has failed to achieve this since its founding. Unfortunately, the United States is left with a depleting school structure, poor educational standards, neglected children and a conducive environment that nurtures social stratification. The urgency and priority of this education in America is often misplaced by an unengaged stakeholder because the stakes are not properly understood. According to the National Center for Educational Statistics (NCES), 50 million American children are enrolled in public schools that are controlled by a bureaucratic and invasive organization who clearly do not have the resources to singularly manage the entire system of education in America (NCES 1). It is imperative that each person understands that the problem is not just that the Department of Education is corrupt, but also that they fail to understand that education in the United States is not a fixed structure, but a dynamic function that differs from state to state, district to district and so forth. Abolishing the role of the Department of Education creates a new perspective. First, it will bring about a conclusion to the ever-lasting conversation regarding the to run the system of education. Removing the Department of Education will take away the very Uzoegwu 3 position that Secretary DeVos currently holds and changes the dynamics of the controversy with Liberal Americans. Stopping the current debate is the first step to actively remodel the system as there are no winners nor losers. Some people argue that education is already controlled within the states, but these people fail to understand that each state department of education does not contribute to legislation but rather enforce legislation that is determined federally. When people think about education, they need to envision it as a function of the state because all states, districts, towns and communities are not nearly similar based on demographics, standards, natural environment, or academic achievement. For this reason, we cannot expect it to be run by the government at a federal level. Subsequently, the Conservation Review details that the U.S Department of Education is not only unconstitutional, but also expensive (Albright 2). Despite the common knowledge that a broken system will not benefit from continuous investments, the federal government continues to squander billions of dollars to fix external issues while turning deaf ears and blind eyes to the internal crisis that is rooted in the structure of education. On the 7th of February, 2017, Betsy DeVos was confirmed and sworn in as the secretary of education under the Trump administration. Following her inauguration, The Hill, a reporting agency, reported that a house republican introduced a legislation bill with the intent to terminate the Department of Education by the 31st of December, 2018 (Carney 1). The article goes further to state that the bill, which was proposed by a house representative from Kentucky, supports the idea that individual school districts cannot benefit from a federally run organization. Since its proposal, seven other house members have signed the proposal to abolish the Department of Education. The proposal is identified as H.R. 899 by United States Congress and it is the first formal attempt to abolish the Department of Education (Titles - H.R.899). The bill, which has remained stagnant in the house, is almost invisible in mass media. It has gained little attention Uzoegwu 4 from civilians as a result of poor broadcasting. Since the proposal, the American Policy Center has set up a petition encouraging civilians to pledge solidarity and support the passing of this bill (DeWeese 1). According to the information on the American Policy website, this bill is phenomenal and could be history in the making (DeWeese 2). The website encourages participation as every petition signed will be hand delivered to the congressman who courageously took a stand for education in the United States of America (DeWeese 2). In addition to this, everyone is encouraged to have a voice by raising awareness concerning this bill in their local societies. This bill serves as a primary way through which the conversation can be reshaped to bring favorable interaction between stakeholders. The success of the educational system in America relies on the abolishment of the Department of Education and the transfer of educational legislative authority to the states. In order to make progress on the ongoing debate on the best way to run public education in the United States of America, we must first change the current conversation. The presence of a federal body being in absolute control of education in all fifty- two states slows down the progression of education. As civilians we are encouraged to partake in the law making progress by signing the petition and spreading awareness in our local communities. We are encouraged to let our voices be heard. time for the lawmakers to include us in their decisions regarding the way the educational system should be run. There has never been a better opportunity to take a stand to fix the public school system and to redefine what it means to attend public schools in the United States. The petitions, which are available to be signed on the American Policy Website, are available until further notice. The movement is alive and it is here to win. Uzoegwu 5 Works Cited Albright, Logan. 5 smart reasons to abolish the Department of  Conservative Review. N.p., 11 Feb. 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Carney, Jordain. Senate confirms DeVos with tie-breaking vote by  The Hill. N.p., 07 Feb. 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. DeWeese, Tom. 29 Mar Petition to Support H.R. 899 Terminate the Department of  American Policy Center. N.p., 29 Mar. 1970. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. NCES. Fast Facts - Back to School  Fast Facts. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Titles - H.R.899 - 115th Congress (2017-2018): To terminate the Department of  Congress.gov. N.p., 07 Feb. 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. U.S. Department of Education. About  Overview and Mission Statement U.S. Department of Education. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Weller, Chris. education secretary supports school vouchers - but studies suggest they help  Business Insider. Business Insider, 27 Feb. 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.