Cabreros !1 Eldin Cabreros Alison Misler ENC 1102 3 May 2017 Freedom of Choice As human beings, we are faced with the fact the death is inevitable. What if we are given the opportunity to choose how and when we want to die? Physician-assisted suicide provide patients with the option of ending their life as an act of compassion, a death with dignity (Huntoon 98). It is only legal in a few states in America, some fear the practice due to the denotation of It is not exactly suicide but rather a way to end suffering as a result of inevitable death. What people fail to realize is that it is actually a tranquil procedure that requires the permission of the patient. It is the voluntary ending of a patients life with the assistance of a physician (American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine). By making the practice illegal, we are lessening the ability of terminally-ill patients to make their own end-of-life decisions when death is inevitable. To resolve this issue, it is important to be informed and be aware of physician-assisted suicide and the controversies of making it illegal. The University of South Florida wants to inform its students and the public, people who can impact the local community about the topic of physician-assisted suicide. To achieve this, the university is hosting a Suicide on May 22 nd , raising awareness on the positive impact of physician-assisted suicide and promoting a plan that legalizes the practice. According to the American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine, physician- assisted suicide involves a physician providing a patient, with their request, a prescription of a Cabreros !2 lethal dose of medication that they can self-ingest with the intention of ending their life (AAHPM). As an academy experienced with dealing with the sick, specifically the terminally ill, their definition establishes the independence of the patient under the procedure. There is little involvement of the physician except to provide the prescription of medicine. It signifies the large distinction between physician-assisted suicide and euthanasia, which some people do not consider a legitimate palliative care (Karsoho, et al. 190). In euthanasia, the physician administers the lethal medicine but in physician-assisted suicide, the patient is the one ingesting the medicine. In addition to prescribing the medicine, physicians must also inform patients about end-of-life care. By highlighting the executive powers of the patient within the practice, it reveals the main reason why people support the legalization of physician-assisted suicide: the freedom to choose. Despite the negative denotation of the term various groups of people support the legalization of physician-assisted suicide. Those who support physician-assisted suicide are knowledgeable of the mental and physical, that terminally-ill patients go through (Karsoho, et al. 194). Patients who request for assisted suicide desire to end the intolerable pain that they experience, not to give up on life. Approximately 68% of Americans say that doctors should be legally allowed to assist the terminally ill in committing suicide. Such statistic increases to 81% among young adults between the age of 18 and 34 (Gallup). This group of people includes college students who can initiate change within states that do not have the practice legalized. It also includes healthcare workers, such as nurse practitioners, who work personally with patients and are aware of the pain and agony they go through. Cabreros !3 The suffering of terminally ill patients can be heard from stories of individuals impacted by physician-assisted suicide. One of these stories is from Jenny Cooper, a mother, a wife and a cancer fighter who passed away last year from the effects of her cancer. She wanted to die on her own terms and believed that one should have the right to prolong my Another story involves a son, Joseph Halsey, who witnessed his father on his deathbed noticing he bore of the father he was, holding down three jobs, coaching two little league teams and dancing at celebrations (Death with Dignity). These stories imply the idea of one losing their identity as a result of their terminal illness. Patients who have a severely debilitating illness are likely to be depressed and lonely as they are battling their illness (Huntoon 98). As human beings we become attached to our identities or to what makes us who were, and when it is taken away from us we feel a sense of emptiness: depressed and lonely. It is clear that physician-assisted suicide can alleviate the hardships that terminally-ill patients face but many people are not aware of the requirements they must have before qualifying for it. To be qualified they need to be a resident of a state that has death with dignity laws, be eighteen years or older, mentally competent, and be diagnosed with a terminal illness that can lead to death within six months (Death with Dignity). Many patients will not be able to be qualified for such end-of-life care as only five out of the fifty states in America have dead with dignity laws (Huntoon 98). The various requirements of physician-assisted suicide show that not all patients will be able to hasten their death, lessening the idea its legalization will provide patients an excuse just to end their life. Many of you are not aware of it but you are involved with physician-assisted suicide one way or another. As Americans, you are required to pay taxes to the government and more than Cabreros !4 25% of it goes towards health care, which includes end-of-life care (Hix). If you are paying for Medicare, one in every four dollars will go towards life-sustaining treatment. The amount of money going towards end-of-life care can be reduced from patients who undergo physician- assisted death (Fung). Patients who make the request will not be considered treated and as a result fewer taxes will be paid. A large amount of tax money and Medicare dollars will be wasted prolonging the suffering of terminally-ill patients; to resolve this issue, you can raise awareness and make a direct impact on your local community. The lack of death with dignity laws in Florida as well as other states in America prompts the University of South Florida to inform its students and the public about the issue. The school is hosting a Suicide to inform students about the consequences of making physician-assisted suicide illegal. It will be held on May 22nd at the Marshall Student Center Ballroom from 6:00 to 9:00 pm. At this event, presenters will provide students the knowledge of physician-assisted suicide, how it can end the suffering of terminally-ill patients, and reduce the amount of money going to waste. In addition, the event will provide individuals the opportunity to sign a petition showing their local, state and national government how many people support the freedom to choose, encouraging them to pass death with dignity laws. The event will also provide students with volunteer opportunities among outreach efforts involving physician-assisted suicide. It is evident that physician-assisted suicide can end the suffering of terminally ill patients. Patients with a severely debilitating illness cause them to feel a sense of emptiness that induces depression and loneliness. With physician-assisted suicide, it allows them to die with the identity they lived with and not the identity their terminal illness gave them. In addition to ending Cabreros !5 suffering, it can also end the amount of money going to waste from taxes and Medicare. By attending the event, signing the petition and becoming a volunteer, individuals can raise awareness about the issue. It will enlighten those in opposition that the treatment that the decision is solely made by the patient and not the physician. These individuals can become the first step in legalizing physician-assisted suicide as it only takes one to make a difference. Cabreros !6 Works Cited Dead with Dignity. N.d. Web. 29, January 2017. American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine Board of Directors. Statement on Physician-Assisted  Physician-Assisted Dying AAHPM. American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine, 24 June 2016. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. Cohen-Almagor, R. Dossier to Live and An Argument for Physician-Assisted Suicide and against  Ethics, Medicine and Public Health, vol. 1, 01 Oct. 2015, pp. 431-441. Compassion &  Compassion & Choices. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 April. 2017. Emanuel, Ezekiel J., et al. Attitudes and Practices of Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted Suicide in the United States, Canada, and  JAMA, the Journal of the American Medical Association, no. 1, 2016, p. 79. 27 April 2017. Dead with Dignity. N.d. Web. 29, January 2017. Gallup, Inc. In U.S., Support Up for Doctor-Assisted  Gallup. Gallup, 27 May 2015. Web. 27 Apr. 2017 Hix, Richard. 2014 Taxpayer The White House. The White House, n.d. Web. 13 April. 2017. Huntoon, Lawrence R. Physician-Assisted Suicide And Euthanasia: The Destruction Of Morals, Ethics, And  Journal Of American Physicians And Surgeons 4 (2016): 98. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 January 2017. Cabreros !7 Karsoho, Hadi, et al. Suffering and Medicalization at the End of Life: The Case of Physician- Assisted  Social Science & Medicine, vol. 170, 01 Dec. 2016, pp. 188-196. 27 April. 2017. Dead with Dignity. N.d. Web. 29, January 2017.