Thomas 1 Essence Thomas Alison Missler ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Final Draft A lot of us cannot really imagine working hard in a minimum wage job and not being able to afford some of the basic necessities of life. What we fail to realize is that there are people all over the United States that are living that reality. In the southern states, forty percent of working people are a part of the reality (Thankful For the Fight For $15). An army of the low wage workers have joined together over the recent years to help push for a raise in the federal minimum wage, which has sat at the same low price for almost eight years now. This army has lead marches and rallies in order for their voices to be heard and people are hearing it. Although fifteen dollars an hour seems like such a big jump from what these low wage workers are currently making, it is considered living wage. Petitions have been started and have made their ways to being turned into new laws. Many people ridicule those that work in the fast food industry, especially in restaurants. They do not consider it to be a real job (fightfor15.org). Considering the ridiculous low wages that these worker make compared to other jobs, it may as well not be a real job. With the current bottom of the barrel wages that workers receive, they are struggling to stay afloat, working paycheck to paycheck. It is not a sustainable lifestyle. In the United States, the current living wage, the average income needed to support a family (of four), is about $15.84, and it is only a few cents less than that for the living wage in just Florida (Living Thomas 2 Wage Calculator). So now they are speaking up and demanding that they receive pay increases or they will not work. Corporate heads have proposed threats that if the worker stop working, they will just refill the quitting positions with machines, basically replacing them with robots. This would cause the unemployment rate to rise, setting up some economic downfall that would not just affect these low wage workers but also the rest of the citizens. Interestingly enough, when it comes to issues like this being broadcasted in the media, one would think that people nationwide would feel compelled to do something in regards to the issue. But many people, especially those that the issue does not directly pertain to, do not feel the need to participate in any way because their input would not make much of a difference. It would make a difference, though. On the Fight for 15 website, the creators have an ongoing petition for supporters to sign and be a part of. Each supporter gets the fighters one step closer to the change that is wanted. This group has held rallies and marches in several major cities to take a stance in the movement. Cities such as New York City and Sacramento and Chicago have already granted low wage workers their minimum wage increase, and it is only a matter of time before a city like Tampa does the same. It is well overdue for an increase in the federal minimum wage, and the workers supporting and advocating for Fight for 15 are deserving of appropriate working wages for the tireless work they do to keep our bellies full while we are on the go. As regular citizens particularly unaffected by the low working wages, it would be a major help to the other deserving citizens if we stood behind them and helped the cause. The bigger the masses are in the rallies and marches, the more attention it would get from media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram. Thomas 3 Since the Fight for 15 has already done a good job getting change in some cities, for the rest of us uninvolved citizens, it is our job to help them get change everywhere else. We need to show our support and join the action. Go sign the petition online. When the next rally or march comes to town, join in. Not only will it help get closer to the minimum wage being raised, but helping to fight the fight will also give a sense of being a part of something important, and indeed something that will be a part of our history books. Every person should be able to live comfortably. Help the Fight for 15 get the living wages they deserve. Thomas 4 Works Cited Spielberg, Ben and Jared Bernstein. for the Fight for The Washington Post. 24 Nov 2016. Web. 15 Apr 2017. Fight For $15, Fightfor15. N.p, n.d. Web. 15 Apr 2017. Glasmeier, Amy K. and Carey Anne Nadeau. from the 2016 Data Living Wage Calculator. 13 Apr 2017. Web. 1 May 2017. Impact of a $15/hour Minimum Wage in Florida Trend. 28 June 2017. Web. 30 Apr 2017.