Foster 1 Wesley Foster Bob Botkin ENC 1102 23 April 2017 Student Athletes Paid To Play? When thinking of student athletes, immediately pictured is a lucky male or female who has been given the opportunity that most athletes dream of since childhood to compete at the collegiate level. Whether its Football, Baseball, or anything in between, these athletes get the amazing opportunity to represent their school and have their name and number on a jersey. Since the beginning of the twenty-first century, there has been a debate between stakeholders on whether or not college athletes should be paid to play. These athletes should not be worried about getting paid and just feel blessed that they are receiving scholarships to high ranking schools all across the country. Being a collegiate student athlete is one step under the big show, professional sports. These students are still as stated, and should fully understand that before asking to get a paycheck for doing something they love. The skill level between college and professional is like night and day and only the best of the best gets the opportunity to even earn a tryout and hopefully one day get that call that every athlete dreams of receiving one day from a professional organization. This issue is coming up more frequently every year and not only is it the students complaining but the parents of these athletes too. The stakeholders in this argument are between the students/parents that feel their son/daughter should be paid to play against the NCAA/school athletic board which thinks that they are not going to be paid due to the fact that they are students still and not professional athletes. Foster 2 To reiterate, student athletes should not be paid to play because they are students first and athletes second. The NCAA along with college campuses all over the country, have been arguing about this issue for the last decade and it is only getting worse. These student athletes, along with their families, feel that their children put in hours of hard work day in and day out and receive nothing in return so they should start earning a salary. Being that these student athletes do work hard with having to both train and study all in the same day, that is what they signed up to do when they were recruited out of high school. These student athletes know from experience that it is hard to balance both school work, sports, and social life but they do not receive anything in return as their families are stating. The NCAA or the National Collegiate Athletic Association is a non-profit organization which manages athletes of over 1,100 colleges and universities at the Division I, II, and III level. Their main goal is to have student athlete success on the field, in the classroom and for the rest of their youth. The success of the NCAA is involved in all collegiate sports not pertaining to a particular sport. than $2.7 billion in athletic scholarships are distributed each year along with access to medical care, academic support services and first-class training (NCAA). These student athletes without a doubt work hard both on and off the field and they have received scholarships for tuition, on campus meals, and last but not least, room and board. The list of benefits that these athletes receive just go on and on but somehow they still want more. Is being looked at on campus to all the other students as heroes and getting a chance to wear a jersey with their own personal name and number on it while playing the sport they grew up loving not good enough for them? It truly is sad to think that after all of the free funded gifts from the school and athletic department of the student athletes choosing, do they think that they need to earn a salary in order to be happy playing the sport they have been playing since childhood? Foster 3 Let us say for instance that athletes were to be paid to play. In collegiate sports, there are three divisions; Division I, Division II, and Division III. Not to mention JUCO (junior college) and NAIA (National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics). So, there are a ton of programs that athletes all over the country dream about earning a spot on no matter what sport they excel at. However, only the three divisions, I, II, and III are funded by the NCAA because they are an actual organization that sponsors these schools and are in charge of all athletics and athletes. Last year in 2016, the National Collegiate Athletic Association had a revenue of 995.9 million USD. This company is a non-profit organization that runs college sports all across the Untied States that deals with twenty-four sports. According to their website, their opening sentence states that National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) is a non-profit association which regulates athletes of 1,281 institutions, conferences, organizations, and individuals. It also organizes the athletic programs of many colleges and universities in the United States and Canada, and helps more than 450,000 college student-athletes who compete annually in college These student athletes are amateurs who are not on the same level as professional athletes which is why they do not and will not earn a salary as long as they are still part of a university. To reiterate, every athlete dreams of making it to the big time but it just is not possible or logical. Getting paid to play sports is what the lucky few in professional sports get to do from the moment they wake up to the time they close their eyes for bed. They once were student athletes who wanted to turn their dreams into reality so what did they do? They worked hard, they trained and studied and were the first people in the locker room and the last ones to leave at the end of the day. That is what these students still do not understand fully; you get what you put in. These athletes are just students that were lucky to get out of high school and earn their diploma and are now here at the collegiate level striving to better themselves at sports. Foster 4 In conclusion, student athletes should not be paid to play because not only are they students first and athletes second and they are not on the same skill level as professional athletes. This argument between stakeholders as whether or not they should be paid to play will never be in favor of the athlete. Like stated previously, these lucky athletes who were signed out of high school because of their skill in their individual sport already receive free tuition, meal plan, room and board, and not to mention all the equipment and gear and the facilities that the school spends millions of dollars on for them to stay in shape throughout the season. Paying student athletes would come with a major cost to universities because there just is not enough money to fund every single sport and still be able recruit kids and give them scholarships. Also, it would not be fair to the sports that are less popular or for female teams so there would be a huge dilemma within the sports world at the collegiate level. Students are not professional athletes who are paid salaries and incentives for a career in sports. They are students receiving access to a college education through their participation in sports, for which they earn scholarships to pay tuition, fees, room and board, and other allowable expenses. Collegiate sports are not a career or (Mitchell). People need to understand that if student athletes started getting paid to play, the consequences would be detrimental to all universities across the nation and the NCAA and programs that fund collegiate sports would be destroyed. Foster 5 Works Cited Academy, U.S. Sports. Point/Counterpoint: Paying College  The Sport Journal. N.p., 31 Jan. 2015. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Gottlieb, Doug. College Athletes Be  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 16 June 2011. Web. 23 Apr. 2017. McCauley, Kieran. College Athletes Be  Daily Local News. Daily Local News, 28 Apr. 2015. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Mitchell, Horace. Students Are Not Professional  U.S. News & World Report. U.S. News & World Report, 06 Jan. 2014. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Yankah, Ekow N. Why N.C.A.A. Athletes Be  The New Yorker. The New Yorker, 14 Oct. 2015. Web. 23 Apr. 2017.