Diskey 1 Dylan Diskey Anastasia Khawaja ENC101 4/30/2017 Sound Going Digital Technological involvement with music has steadily grown throughout the years and the relationship between music and technology has grown tremendously closer as time continued to pass. Technology has furthered the possibilities in music and continues to do so even now. These new technologies are not a replacement for instruments, but are a complement to them. Technology becoming more closely involved with music is a positive thing because it allows for better quality in recorded music, it makes production of music easier for individuals to do, and it also makes the consumption of music more convenient. With the rise of technology in music production came digital audio workstations, or DAWs, which were a completely new platform for music production (DeArcangelis). The first true DAW was the software platform known as Pro Tools. It however did not become a replacement to the old way of music production, but an addition tool to be used in the process. Pro Tools allowed one to use the entire recording on a computer screen (DeArcangelis). According to Terry Manning, a producer and engineer who had worked with ZZ Top, Aretha Franklin, and Iron Maiden, told about his past experience with using Pro Tools, saying, increased my capabilities to 4 track as soon as that was available, and started syncing the Pro Tools system up to my 24/32 track machines, just to get a few extra tracks! Then the track count increased rapidly. It seemed to happen almost overnight, not 10-20 years in the making as I had Diskey 2  (DeArcangelis). Clearly this new feature in music production was very helpful to all those who utilized it. The ability for one to create their own music also became much more accessible with the increase of technological involvement with music. The recording software required to make music became much more accessible and affordable than it has been in the past (JMC Academy). DAWs gave opportunities for artists to record and produce their music with decent quality (JMC Academy). It also allowed for numerous audio tracks to be edited at the same time and the ability to add multitudes of effects (JMC Academy). There are some concerns though with the new widespread accessibility of music production, yet they are not considered too much of an issue that it does not make these advancements worth it by any means. According to James Raper, an Audio Engineer tutor for JMC Academy, the mass of music being produced, quality of both musicians entering a studio and the overall end result have certainly taken a hit. Given the current state of the industry, advancements made in recording technology certainly outweigh these negatives. That being said, there are still high quality musicians performing in world class studios and releasing incredible music every (JMC Academy). With this being said, there is still a clear need for learned skills when creating and producing high quality music. Going along with the idea of musicians having better accessibility to music productions, there is question of whether or not these musicians will have an opportunity to make it big. Thomas Wesley Pentz, a world renowned DJ who is better known by his stage name Diplo, made observation of this matter by saying, future is bright! But just getting your sounds heard will pose a challenge. There are too many gatekeepers holding the keys and they all want to be compensated for being part of the process. The current big-name producers are lucky to be where they are simply because harder for everyone underneath them to reach the same level and Diskey 3 going to keep being harder to break through to that top (Carley). When saying this, Diplo clearly points out through this statement that although it is easy for individuals to make music thanks to current technology, it is going to become increasingly difficult for those artists to make it big in the music industry. Consumption of music has also become more convenient for all those who want to listen to it. Thanks to technology becoming more and more involved with music, consumption of music has become increasingly convenient for the majority of people. It has become so widespread in availability due to streaming sites such as Soundcloud, Spotify, YouTube and others (JMC Academy). These sites cut out the majority of the need for distributors when someone wishes to listen to music (JMC Academy). With the also declining need for record labels to an audience, artists are able to interact more closely with their listeners (Peters). However, there are not only benefits to this new way of sharing and spreading musical creations. One downside to instantaneous streaming is the fact that artists are earning less profit from their creations than they had been beforehand. This creates the debate of whether or not these sites are ultimately beneficial to artists or not. Some may think that the growth in technological involvement is harming music as a whole with ideas such as music becoming too complex. Older generations may think all the digital sounds and effects in music is ruining it as a whole. However, artists such as Diplo claim that music will not continue with the much as possible in a architecture that it has, and it will return to cleverly composed, simple songs (Carley). Some, such as artist Ryan Tedder believe that the currently popular dance music will die out in the next five to ten years for sure, and while others, such as Tor Erik Hermansen agree that the latest most popular sounds will fall out in popularity as well, they will eventually return once again at some point in the future Diskey 4 (Carley). A great way to sum up the questions about the changes in popularity in music would be a statement by Ricky Reed, in which he says, think there are some details of style that come and go as time passes. The drum sounds, the vocal effects, popular pockets and bops, these small things change from year to year. But we will still have rap, dance music, rock (Carley). Though music has changed over the years due to factors such as new technology and changing trends in popularity, the technological involvement in music has been an overall benefit for multiple reasons. Technology has given numerous more options to artists when they are editing tracks, music production has become much more available and affordable to smaller artists, and music has become much easier for the consumer to acquire to things such as streaming sites. Technology has given many advantages to the musical world and all who are involved in it, and though some may think the involvement of technology with music growing could make things overly complex, the benefits far outweigh any detriments. Diskey 5 Works Cited Bromley, Jordan. Guest Column: Why Music Streaming Is Good for Creators and  Billboard. Billboard, 25 July 2016. Web. 29 Apr. 2017. Carley, Brennan. Top Pop Producers Look Ahead to the Future of  Spin. N.p., 23 Oct. 2015. Web. 25 Apr. 2017. DeArcangelis, Christopher. How the 1990s Changed Recording and Music Production  Reverb. Reverb, 15 Feb. 2017. Web. 25 Apr. 2017. JMC Academy How technology has changed music  Jmcacademy. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Apr. 2017. Peters, Luke. How Evolving Tech Has Changed Music  Tech.Co. Tech.co, 25 Jan. 2016. Web. 25 Apr. 2017.