Student 1 Student Professor Derisi ENC 1102 16 April 2015 Mandatory GMO Labeling is a Recipe for Disaster Genetically modified organisms, or GMOs, are defined as that have had genes from a different organism implanted into their own genetic code in order to produce a new (Genetically Engineered Foods). The use of GMOs has become a significant controversial topic. Arguments for GMOs include that they grow more efficient crops, while arguments against GMOs include the morality and safety of GMOS. Whatever the view, GMOs are exceedingly prevalent in the United States. As of 2012, nearly 75% of processed foods in the United States contain GMOs, and 90% of crops such as corn, soybeans, and cotton have been genetically modified (Morisy). As these numbers continue to grow, the opinion on GMOs becomes increasingly befuddled by contradicting reports. Thus, calls for the mandatory labeling of GMOs have become exceedingly prominent. However, the mandatory labeling of GMOs is far from the perfect solution, as it would be more harmful than good. The American Association for the Advancement of Science, said that after than 130 research projects, covering a period of more than 25 years of research and involving more than 500 independent research groups... GMOs, are not per se more risky than e.g. conventional plant breeding by the With the agreement that GMOs are safe, they can be used as cheaper and more efficient food sources to feed the ever-growing population. Yet the stigma that surrounds GMOs remains, which mandatory labeling would only exacerbate. By Student 2 preventing the mandatory labeling of GMOs, they could finally be utilized to their full potential of eliminating malnutrition across the globe. In order to fully understand the role of GMOs in society, one must first understand the importance of GMOs in the past. Humans have been altering the DNA of plants and animals for over 30,000 years, through the process of selective breeding (Rangel). One commonly noted example of this is corn, which originally had produced few kernels of corn. Through selective breeding, corn has drastically changed, and now yields much larger ears (Rangel). This form of genetic modification, while primitive, allowed for humans to form the civilizations that exist today. genetic modification is fundamentally the same, only it provides greater accuracy and the opportunities for developments that would otherwise be impossible. While this potential for scientific advancement is an exciting frontier for some, others view this as a consequential reason to oppose GMOs, saying these new crops are potentially dangerous. But this is not true, as GMOs must undergo many tests in order to ensure that the crop is the same as the non-GM version, and that no added bit is toxic or allergenic by the Because of this, GMOs the most extensively tested crops ever added to our food by the thus disproving one argument for mandatory labeling of GMOs. With regards to attempting to promote mandatory GMO labeling, many individuals claim that there is not enough significant evidence to prove that GMOs are safe for human consumption. However, this claim is overwhelmingly false. As aforementioned, GMOs are equivalent to traditional farming practices when it comes to the safety of the crops by Other concerns include potential allergic reactions to the crops, and the natural mixing of Student 3 GM seeds and non-GM seeds due to wind. These concerns have been disproven, as there have been no problems with allergies associated with GMOs, and the mixing of seeds is easily controlled through better field separation practices (Popescu and Nicolescu). Since there are no health problems that labeling would protect individuals from, then mandatory labels would only bring unnecessary harm. Professor David Zilberman at the University of California Berkeley exemplified this by using cigarette warning labels as an example. Such labels are only appropriate when the item in question is indubitably harmful, yet GMOs do not fit this definition and therefore do not need a label (Zilberman). These mandatory labels would also increase the cost of goods, which goes against a core benefit of GMOs. A report from the American Medical Association showed that mandatory labeling of GMOs could cause an estimated $200 increase per year in the cost of groceries per household (Morisy). The report, through surveys, also found that majority of consumers are not willing to pay for increases commensurate with the costs of mandatory labeling (Morisy). Therefore, labeling GMOs would not have any significant benefit that would begin to outweigh the negative impacts that would come from it being mandatory. As the GMO debate rages on, those who could have benefitted from the use of GMOs are suffering from the consequences of inaction and and false beliefs. In 2015, the number of malnourished people across the globe was around 800 million, and the rate of growth of the human population can only lead to this number growing drastically if nothing is changed (Gerry). Children are the most impacted by malnutrition, and undernutrition accounts for 45%, or 3.1 million, deaths among children People in developed countries often have access to food that is nutritional, so many do not realise the extent that others, especially Student 4 children, lack this basic biological need. Some argue that enough food is produced to feed everyone in the world a proper diet. However, factors such as population growth, changes to the climate that affect yields, and a need for a sustainable and quick change all call for another solution. The UN also has predicted that humans will need to produce 70% more food by the year 2050 in order to give everyone enough food (Rangel). GMOs are a potential solution to this problem that shows remarkable promise in decreasing the number of malnourished individuals. One example of a genetically modified crop that has combated malnutrition is Golden Rice. Over 500,000 individuals are killed every year due to a deficiency in Vitamin A, so rice, being a staple crop, was bioengineered to have vitamin A to decrease the number of individuals with the deficiency (Gearing). This method is also remarkably much more cost efficient. It would cost around three million dollars to provide the necessary nutrient supplements to a country the size of Ghana, whose population is only about 8% of what the United States population is (Gearing). Bioengineering allows for this cost to be drastically reduced, since once the seeds of the crop, in this case the Golden Rice, are given to farmers, there is no other investment needed, since all other costs would be what is normally needed to grow the rice. GMOs have the ability to make huge strides in fixing malnutrition and undernutrition across the globe in an efficient and cheap way that could provide long term solutions for this problem. In a more personal sense, one way for an individual to voice their support for GMOs with minimal time or money is to purchase foods that do not claim to be GMO-free, or organic. The Non-GMO Project, a group that advocates for the labeling of GMOs, says that voting with our dollars every time we shop, collectively we have the power to change the way our food is grown and The same logic here is inversely true. By not purchasing organic Student 5 or GMO-free products, consumers can send a message of accepting GMOs and working to end the negative stigma associated with them. One is also able to contact local government officials, especially when a bill regarding GMOs is going to be voted on, to voice their support for GMOs. However, the simplest way to support GMOs is through research and sharing credible information to friends and family to decrease the stigma around them and increase the number of individuals with exposure to said knowledge. The mandatory labeling of GMOs is both unnecessary and unjustly detrimental to GMOs. Contrary to what some believe, there is significant scientific support showing that GMOs not only pose no health risks, but that they also could be extremely beneficial in solving problems associated with malnutrition across the globe. Through simple actions such as research and reading what one is purchasing, individuals can sway what is being consumed and end the stigma that GMOs are immediately equivalent to an abominable crime against nature. If the stigma around GMOs is eliminated, then there is a realistic potential for farmers across the world to produce enough nutritious food for everyone so no child or adult goes hungry. (WC: 1400) Student 6 Works Cited Gearing, Mary E. as Gold: Can Golden Rice and Other Biofortified Crops Prevent in the Harvard University, Accessed on 9 Sept. 2015, sitn.hms.harvard.edu/flash/2015/good-as-gold-can-golden-rice-and-other-biofortified-cro ps-prevent-malnutrition/. Accessed on 13 Apr. 2017. Gerry, Christopher. Feeding the World One Genetically Modified Tomato at a Time: A Scientific in the Harvard University, 10 Aug. 2015. Web. Accessed on 07 Apr. 2017. Medical NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine, 5 Jan. 2017, medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002432.htm. Accessed on 25 Jan. 2017.  NonGMO The NonGMO Project, n.d. Accessed on 15 Feb. 2017. Morisy, Lee R. of Bioengineered Rep. no. 2. American Medical Association, n.d. Web. on Mar. 2017. Food World Food Programme, www1.wfp.org/nutrition. Accessed on 13 Apr. 2017. Popescu, Alexandru and Victor Felix Nicolesu. The Impact of Genetically Modified Organisms Spreading to Agricultural  Papers: Series D, Animal Science - the International Session of Scientific Communications of the Faculty of Animal vol. 59, Jan. 2016, pp. 51-56. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx Student 7 on 23 Feb. 2017. Rangel, Gabriel. From Corgis to Corn: A Brief Look at the Long History of GMO  Science in the Harvard University, 23 Oct. 2016. Web. Accessed on 07 Apr. 2017. Statement by the AAAS Board of Directors On Labeling of Genetically Modified Foods. Statement. American Association for the Advancement of Science, 20 Oct. 2012. Web. Accessed on 30 Mar. 2017. Zilberman, David. Why labeling of GMOs is actually bad for people and the  Berkeley UC Berkeley, 11 June 2012. Web. Accessed on 30 Mar. 2017.