Alammar Abdalaziz Alammar Ashley Tisdale ENC1101 February 28 th 2017 Peace, Hope and Love: Race Relations and Discrimination in America Islamophobia has been an ongoing problem in America even way before 9/11 and it has been getting abhorrent in recent years. A phobia, according to the Merriam-Webster dictionary, is exaggerated, usually inexplicable and illogical fear of a particular object, class of objects, or The hate-crime report suggests that 56.58% of all hate crimes are motivated by race and ethnicity differences. What is most amazing is that scientists have concluded that genetically were all mixed and race in the human species does not exist and that it was invented in 1400 to separate people and it has worked perfectly ever since. The conversation around discrimination against Muslims-Americans is constantly changing, depending on what goes on in the world whenever a terrorist is linked to the religion, hate-crimes usually increase after the inhumane attacks such as 9/11 and Paris attacks. A discussion that has been going on for more than a decade now is discrimination against Muslim Americans, in the US. Islam is a religion that is followed by 1.7 billion people, is now the main target of the media. Much has changed since 9/11, hate-crimes against Muslim Americans has increased yearly and by 60% between 2014 and 2015. U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch said percent increase in hate crimes committed against Muslim Americans, and the highest total of anti-Muslim incidents since 2001, when 9/11 spurred so many reprehensible (cnsnews.com). The report indicates in the first six years after 9/11, the FBI Alammar investigated more than 800 incidents involving violence, threats and vandalism against persons perceived to be Muslim or of Arab, Middle Eastern, or South Asian origin. Hate-crimes targeting Muslims in America, are only growing such as in St. Louis, a man was arrested after the police said he pointed a gun at a Muslim family shopping on his block and told them they should all die, are increasing yearly at a rapid pace. And now that seven Muslim countries are banned from entering the US, Sunil Bhatia, Ph.D., a cultural psychologist said move to ban Muslim immigrants is illegal based on the 1965 law Congress enacted forbidding the exclusion of immigrants based on national (psychologytoday.com). Robert McCaw is a government affairs manager for the council on American-Islamic Relations said Islam is no more violent or less violent than Christianity or any other monotheistic he said. think one stereotype is true: that Muslims are being highly discriminated against. So an experience which people have experienced (www.huffingtonpost.com). Although 73% of American believe Muslims are facing a great deal of discrimination, however the continuous increase has me wondering if things will ever change or will it keep getting worse. As president George Bush stated at a mosque in DC acts of violence against innocents violate the fundamental tenets of the Islamic faith, and its important for my fellow Americans to understand (www.plagrisim.org). The 43 rd president of the US speech was influential at that time as he said that after 9/11. The only thing I still question is that will we ever find peace in our communities as loving human beings. Alammar Work cited page. AG Lynch: 67% Increase in Hate Crimes Against Muslim Americans in  CNS News. N.p., 15 Dec. 2016. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Bhatia, Sunil. Muslims Is Illegal and Psychology today. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Islam in America Post  The Pluralism Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. 6 Fast Facts About the New Hate-Crime  Reason.com. N.p., 15 Nov. 2016. Web. 05 Feb. 2017