Student 1 Student Derisi ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Sticker For Your Rights Americans pride themselves on their right to know what is going on in the world. They value this right so much, several laws and even amendments have been passed in order to ensure that they were guaranteed. It has come to a point in time in which the right to know is being obstructed by the smoke and mirrors that large companies are providing to hide the truth about what their products are made from. Large food companies use genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in the production of their food without outright letting the consumers know when they do, inhibiting consumers the ability to choose for themselves what they wish to put in their bodies. Thus, taking away any choice that a consumer might have when deciding what we put into our bodies. Genetically modified ingredients should be allowed in the market in similar manner in which cigarettes and alcohol are allowed on the market, with a specific label informing consumers about the dangers that lie within the box, due to the prominency of and as a right for Americans. The use of GMOs is prominent among large food cooperations. The reason why many food companies use GMOs is because of the effectiveness that they provide. Using GMOs creates a large yield crop which means large cooperations can get more bang for their buck. This might be a good way to squeeze an extra few pennies out of their product, but disregards the effect on the people that are digesting them. What makes a genetically modified organism is that Student 2 these organisms have DNA that does not occur naturally. The DNA of these plants (usually wheat or another broad use crop) has been manipulated by scientists in order to make their crops more herbicide resistant (which can ultimately cause environmental issues), sturdier, produce a larger yield, or all of the above (Just Label It). GMOs have also been used to create fruits (like bananas or grapes) with smaller or nonexistent seeds which will eventually contribute to the extinction of the fruit (CNN). GMOs have become a staple in the diet of an average American, so many of the processed foods we consume contain one or more genetically modified ingredients. Furthermore, the extent to which the manipulated DNA will effect the human body completely understood. Humans have just recently begun to use GMOs as a major part of their diet and recent generations have been the only ones to have lived completely on GMOs. Studies are unable to fully measure the extent that modified DNA of ingredients will effect humans in the long run because humans have not been using this resource for longterm. There is no doubt that there is possible danger looming with the consequences that have not been seen yet. The effect of GMOs are not known, and while it is a possibility that the effects may not be a matter of life or death, but regardless the fact that we are unsure of this is where the danger lies. We are playing Russian roulette with the what if or possible danger but this is not what needs to change. The United States government clearly believes that consumers deserve the right to know what they are putting into their bodies. This is exemplified by their creation of an agency to oversee the addition of new foods/drugs into the market and regulation of those currently on. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has many laws concerning the labeling of foods. Their laws are the reason why every food product must be labeled with nutrition facts (calories, sodium, fat, fiber) along with the ingredients that are present in the product. The FDA has Student 3 submitted this law in order to consumers in maintaining healthy dietary (FDA, Nutrition Label Facts). The nutrition labeling act requires that food companies put all health information on the label of their products so that consumers will be able to use the information to make an informed and healthy decision regarding their diet and what they put into their bodies. However, it seems that this law does not extend to GMOs. Ingredients must be labeled, but how these ingredients are created, which may be potentially dangerous, is not required to be labeled. This law has been put in place because of concerns indicated by government officials and growing health concerns in The United States (diabetes and obesity). Both are avoidable when consumers are informed about the amount of sugar and calories in food items. When this comes to a concern with consequences that are not fully understood quite yet, companies are not obligated to air on the side of caution. Will there be no call to action until it has been proven that the rumor of GMOs causing health issues is proven through the demise of the health of the population? There are options that may be imposed in the future that allows for an extension of the labeling act. This would allow the consumer population to make their own decisions about how they wish to eat and what they want to put into their bodies. If being organic is labeled, being gluten-free is labeled, why not GMOs as well? Under the circumstance GMOs are actually labeled, they are done so with a QR code. QR codes are similar to barcode, they are scanned in order to read information. Nowadays, nearly every box is labeled by a QR code and if a consumer would like to determine if a product contains genetically modified ingredients, they must download a specialized scanner in order to read the code and get the information that they need (Mobile-QR-Codes.org). Instead of hiding this information behind QR codes, this Student 4 information should be made available to those without the means to scan the codes. This allows everyone the ability to be informed about the types of things they are putting into their bodies regardless of their means. Several states have already made laws requiring companies to label GMO containing products, the most notable being the first from the state of Vermont: the DARK act. This made labeling mandatory on the package in plain sight, making the secret exposed to consumers. Almost 90 percent of Americans support the act of regulated labeling of GMO containing products being mandatory and 88 percent of Americans believe that that labeling should be on the box rather than hidden behind a code (Justlabelit.org). There are several works in progress in The United States that can be supported in order to make GMO labeling widespread. There is currently a bill in congress that proposed that GMO labeling becomes mandatory across the country, though it tell consumers which ingredients are genetically modified but it does ensure that every product that that contains GMOs is labeled outright (Justlabelit.org). This will be the first that requires action to be taken nationwide and makes it mandatory for all companies to participate. This act can be supported by messaging a congressman supporting the bill. Congressmen are loyal to their constituents, and they know what their constituents are in favor of if they are not contacted with opinions. Contacting your congressman is a good way to ensure that your voice is heard. Every American has the right to know what they are putting into their bodies without having to worry about decoding a picture on the box to find it out. Laws are already in place to ensure that labels are placed on boxes that tell consumers the details about how many calories or grams of fat in an attempt to grant consumers healthier options. This same courtesy should be Student 5 extended to those wishing to make healthier decisions regarding whether or not they wish to put genetically modified ingredients in their body. Action needs to be taken, not only to ensure that our right to know remains intact, but also to continue to give individuals the right to control their bodies and what they put in it. (WC 1363) Works Cited Student 6 Food Labeling: Revision of the Nutrition and Supplement Facts  Federal Register. N.p., 27 May 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. GMO Awareness on  GMO Awareness. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. It, Just Label. Just Label It  Just Label It. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.  What Are QR Codes Used QR Code Uses, Quick Response Code, QR Codes, Quick Response Codes, QR Code, QR Codes Use, QR Codes Purpose. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Prisco, Jacopo. Why bananas as we know them might go extinct  CNN. Cable News