McClure 1 Sydney McClure Maria Theodosiou Composition II 8 March 2017 Viewpoint on STEM vs STEAM The STEM program has been around for a long time. Recently, there has been a debate that an A for should be integrated into STEM, to make STEAM. According to T.J article, Engaging Students In STEM he states, term refers to teaching and learning in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and (246-247). The art program at the University of Florida, UF, created two separate images to show the difference between STEM education and STEAM education. Both pictures serve the same purpose, but show different ways of presenting the information. The audience that the university is trying to reach would be parents. Since most people in school are kids, the pictures are designed for parents to help them see how their children could be learning. To do this, they use rhetorical appeals in both pictures. The art program at UF wants to gain more students and encourage the STEM program to become STEAM. To help with this, the pictures that they created use the rhetorical appeals to convince their audience that STEAM education can help improve STEM education and student growth. According to Allyson book, Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation, ethos is the appeal to credibility (27). The ethos used in both pictures, are the sources that are listed at the bottom of each picture, and the UF logo. The UF logo proves that they made both pictures, and the link to their art program makes it more credible. Credibility plays a McClure 2 big role in persuading the audience. It helps back up the own claim by using sources to agree with what is being said. When UF cited the sources that they got their information from, they instantly proved the credibility of their picture. It is noticeable that the second picture has more sources than the first one. However, this does not mean that the first image is less credible; it means that the second picture needed more sources because it contains more information. The use of ethos helps the author persuade the audience that his side is the right side because of the credibility and authority that he is presenting. If one was to look at each source that was cited, it would be clear that each source is reliable because the authors are highly respected sources that know their topic well. art program was careful to pick sources that were both reliable and experienced in their field. This automatically makes the audience believe that what they are seeing in reliable. Using sources from universities and other educational programs shows parents that the information presented has been researched thoroughly, and that the information does relate to the possibility of how their children are being educated. While ethos is the appeal to credibility, logos is the appeal to logic (Hoffman 32). In this situation, the statistics that are displayed appeal to parents in a big way. When most parents look at what school they want their child to go to, they research the schools to see which one has the best educational system. Parents are naturally hardwired to raise their child for success and to prepare them for the world. That is why parents look at what schools can give their child a better future. The first picture seems to be split between STEM and STEAM at the top, however, the picture itself represents STEAM. Under the VS. text, it says, half is not This text sets the picture up to show that you need both sides of the brain to make STEAM. If you look at the bottom of the picture, UF includes the pictures of four different people. Each person has had a huge impact on our world. From Einstein, who discovered so many things McClure 3 in the scientific world, to Steve Jobs, who created a huge company called Apple. UF shows that these four people have strong characteristics from both sides of the brain. art program does not only use the first picture to show the importance of using both STEM and STEAM, but so does the second picture. The second picture mainly focuses on facts and logic. As an example, the top of the picture on the STEAM side shows that students who studied in the arts for four years, gained more points in their SAT scores than those who studied for less than a year. The picture not only says that people who study in the arts get better SAT scores, but also states that when art is connected to STEM related subjects, the learning in both fields deepens. John Maeda states a similar belief in his article entitled: to STEAM: Art in K-12 Is Key to Building a Strong In this article, Maeda says, we know that the challenges the next generation faces will demand creative solutions, but I would argue that STEM alone will not get us (Maeda). Based on the information provided, if the audience takes the information and look sat the STEM side, they will see the statistics and facts presented, are better if art was added to the program. Logos has a way of leading a path to the third rhetorical appeal, pathos, which is the appeal to emotions (Hoffman 37). In the case of analyzing the two pictures, the pathos used is connected to the colors that were chosen. When looking at the first picture, the colors on the right side of the brain makes it obvious that that side of the brain is responsible for creativity. Art is connected to color, but that is not the only reason there are only colors on the right side. The picture takes the colorful side, which conveys the feelings of happiness and fun, and the plain side, which conveys the feeling of seriousness and practicality, and combines them to make the audience feel an understanding that the brain can be stronger together than having one half by itself. According to article, Guide To The Psychology Of Color In Logo colors are proven to McClure 4 convey different emotions (Guest). If you move on to the second picture, you will notice that the background is grey. Grey is used to convey practical and neutral emotions (Guest). This is appropriate since all the topics in STEM are focused on logic and science related fields. The background on the STEAM side is white to convey a feeling of peace. This also makes the other colors stand out, not to mention at the top, all the colors are presented. When all the colors are presented, like in both pictures, all the emotions that are tied to the different colors are combined, making the audience overall feel happy and calm. Ralph article Teaching The Arts Across The Curriculum: Meanings, Policy And proves that colors bring out creativity, which then improves brain function, when he states, also suggests that through an arts process, creative connections can be developed that are at the heart of cognitive (2). art program wanted their audience to feel happy and confident when they look at the STEAM side, that is why all the colors were picked. The color difference automatically draws the attention to the STEAM side. Having the attention drawn to the STEAM side makes it feel more appealing and interesting than the STEM side. Due to this, the audience will feel more connected to the STEAM side. The three rhetorical appeals: ethos, pathos, and logos, can be in both pictures. The fourth appeal, kairos, however, is harder to find. Kairos is the appeal to timeliness (Hoffman 41). One could argue that in the second picture, kairos can be found at the bottom in the STEM section. The bottom shows the statistics of the U.S. STEM rankings, and the percentage of college graduates with STEM degrees. The statistics show that the U.S. is lacking in both categories. It could be argued that this information is a form of kairos, because it is meant to encourage the audience to act now, so that the U.S. rankings can improve before other countries have a chance to improve as well. McClure 5 Comparing the two pictures, the second picture has a lot of the same information included in the first picture; however, the information is conveyed differently. The first picture focuses more on the brain functions related to both sections, and how both sides make STEAM, while the second picture includes how the different educational styles affect the brain. Together, these pictures and the rhetorical appeals that are used, help art program encourage the audience that adding the into STEM is beneficial to student growth. The parents being encouraged to admit their children into STEAM related programs, will make it so that more students are being involved in art. More art students could eventually cause an increase in students being admitted into art program. That would help accomplish their goal in gaining more students, while the whole time, encouraging STEM to become STEAM. That is why these pictures are so important to UF. Creating these pictures not only helps the possibility to gain more students, but it also helps encourage the integration from STEM to STEAM. McClure 6 Works Cited Buck, Ralph, and Barbara Snook. Teaching The Arts Across The Curriculum: Meanings, Policy And  International Journal Of Education & The Arts 17.29-32 (2016): 1-21. Art & Architecture Source. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Guest. A Guide To The Psychology Of Color In Logo  Skyje. 9 Jan. 2012. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. <http://skyje.com/color-in-logo-design/>. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Kennedy, T. J, and M. R.L, Odell. Engaging Students In STEM  Science Education International 25.3 (2014): 246-258. Education Source. Web. 17 Jan. 2017. Maeda, John. STEM to STEAM: Art in K-12 Is Key to Building a Strong  Edutopia, 02 Oct. 2012. Web. 19 Jan. 2017. McClure 7 McClure 8