Student 1 Student Derisi ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Adverse Health Effects of Marijuana Legalization The 2016 general election brought eight additional states into the pact of marijuana legislation where some form of cannabis became legal (Berliner). Prior to the election on November 8, 2016, there were only twenty-five states with marijuana legislation, but now there are twenty-eight with legalized medical marijuana and three with recreational approval (Huddleston). Contrary to rising numbers of state approval, voter approval is only about half, 50% in (Swift). Due to the divided status of approval amongst the nation, marijuana as a whole should not be legalized, but only regulated medical marijuana as it is the only form that will have any benefits to its consumers. Above all, it is important to recognize the differences between medical and recreational marijuana. Fundamentally, marijuana refers to the use of cannabis as a physician recommended form of medicine or herbal whereas recreational marijuana does not require that recommendation Marijuana Law and Legal Unlike medical marijuana, recreational marijuana has associated higher rates of car accidents and psychological disorders caused by usage. The National Center for Biotechnology Information(NCBI) conducted a study that found association between frequent use of marijuana from adolescence into adulthood and significant declines in indicating the effects of marijuana on a developing brain. While driving, influence of cannabis associated with a significantly increased risk of motor vehicle collisions compared with drivers (Asbridge et al.). Student 2 This increased risk is also heightened when faced with fatal collisions, offering the conclusion that impairment caused by marijuana consumption is associated with a higher percentage of fatal collisions (Asbridge et al). Although the word health commonly refers to the symptoms of the human body, a health can also be impacted directly by action. That being said, driving under the influence of marijuana will cause just as much harm as under the influence of alcohol. With that in mind, motor vehicle collisions are not only dangerous to the health of the individual under the influence, but also of those that could possibly be hit; their lives are both endangered. Nevertheless, Drug Policy Alliance(DPA) argues that consumers of marijuana are punished not for their actions but for what they consume and The arrest rates of white juveniles have dropped nine percent from 2012 to 2014 in Colorado, since their recreational marijuana legalization (Cerda 396). DPA insists that the pattern will continue as more states follow course in legalizing the drug, and hope that each state will profit as well as Colorado has in their state revenue through taxes and However, marijuana sold today is not the same as cannabis sold thirty years ago; recreational drug is approximately 10 times more potent (McGorrian). Marijuana Policy Initiative(MPI), argues that contrary to DPA predictions, the tax revenue that states collect from marijuana sales and seemingly lower arrest rates should not outweigh the health of Americans At surface level, the tax revenues from sales should help states grow, but much of that revenue will most likely be focused on drug relief programs because like other illegal drugs 50 percent will suffer withdrawal (McGorrian). States will be forced to fund programs to fight the addiction caused by the newly legalized drug since 9% of those who experiment with marijuana will become costing states in the end (Volkow et al). Although nine percent will become addicted, those numbers do not increase marijuana users in Student 3 (Cerda et al), suggesting that the higher risk in states with marijuana legislation is primarily due to the larger amounts of consumers within those states. Even though the association of addiction is most likely due to the larger amounts of consumers within legalized states, it is important to note that the addiction rates still remain and should be taken into consideration when marijuana legislation comes up on the ballot. In particular, another association is made between medical marijuana usage and recreational usage: if medical marijuana has been legalized, there will be higher rates of recreational marijuana use (Cerda et al). However, medical marijuana could be beneficial for conditions such as glaucoma, nausea, seizures, HIV/AIDS, and even disease, despite the limited research available (Cavalet 42). As more and more Americans accept the role of cannabis in their communities, a common ground must be found in order to address each of the benefits and consequences of marijuana as a whole. In the past, solutions have been risen at both the federal level and in individual states, resulting in conflicting views across the nation. In the November 8, 2016, election, a new majority of states approve some form of cannabis legislation, but the federal government remains against the cause. During the past administration, the federal government has shown laxation on their laws against marijuana sale and consumption, although it is possible for that temperament to change during the new administration. A potential method to unify the viewpoint of marijuana sales in the new administration would be for the federal government to issue a new law stating the legalization of solely medical marijuana as a controlled substance, distinguishing the value of the medical form versus recreational. The new law, or proclamation, must address the medical aspects of the drug and recognize that rejection by the states will not be accepted. With medical marijuana being Student 4 considered a controlled substance, consumers would not only have to be an adult, eighteen years of age but would be legally required to carry a prescription from their physician at all times. This solution would accommodate both halves of the nation; those against marijuana legalization and those for it. Consumers would have the possibility for medical relief and states would have the opportunity to increase their tax revenue based on the sales of the medical version. Since dispensaries would be registered with the federal government, they could be regulated, unlike for recreational marijuana sales. Currently, recreational marijuana largely remains unregulated since it is still sold illegally as it is available to anyone who looks relatively easily. Being controlled, various types of cannabis will be restricted to ensure that only those approved by the FDA can be sold, including any chemically enhanced product. The government would essentially have control over which chemical variations have actual medical benefit for different types of diseases. At the moment, the federal government does little to enforce its stance against marijuana, but the new proclamation would pose fines on any state that does not comply with the order. With enforcement, medical marijuana will eventually be treated like any other controlled substance, punished individuals caught without any prescriptions, similar to narcotics. Despite the popular belief, amongst Americans, that individual states may nullify any federal law that their state does not agree with, states do not have any explicit right to block federal agents by ignoring their laws (Levy). There has not been a single case of the federal judicial branch to grant states the right to dismiss a federal law that citizens simply do not agree with (Maus). It has been noted that states do not have to follow certain laws, but the federal government reserves the right to place sanctions on those who defy the law. In addition to the restrictions, the federal government should not simply abolish recreational marijuana. Educational programs should be set up throughout the country, in public Student 5 schools, that require the teaching of young adults about the benefits and effects of marijuana. Simply abolishing marijuana will not cause young adults to abstain from usage, but through education, Americans can learn and pass along the knowledge of how, specifically, marijuana affects the mind and body. If known, a similar effect to the tobacco campaign will occur; a significant decrease in usage will occur. Although it cannot be eliminated fully, a greater number of young Americans will not seek the effects of illegal marijuana. (Word Count: 1306). Student 6 Works Cited  The Marijuana Policy Initiative. The Marijuana Policy Initiative. n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Asbridge, M., J. A. Hayden, and J. L. Cartwright. Acute Cannabis Consumption and Motor Vehicle Collision Risk: Systematic Review of Observational Studies and  BMJ (Clinical Research Ed.). U.S. National Library of Medicine. 09 Feb. 2012. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Berliner, Uri. As More States Legalize Marijuana, Investors And Marketers Line  NPR. NPR. 20 Nov. 2016. Web. 5 Mar. 2017. Cavalet, Jill Vargo. The Highs and Lows of Medical  Clinician Reviews (2016): 40- 53. Clinician Reviews. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Magdalena. A Public Health of Consequence: Ask About Who  AJPH 107.3 (2016): 396-97. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Magdalena, Melanie Wall, Katherine M. Keyes, Sandro Galea, and Deborah Hasin. Medical Marijuana Laws in 50 States: Investigating the Relationship between State Legalization of Medical Marijuana and Marijuana Use, Abuse and  Drug and Alcohol Dependence 120.1 (2012): 22-27. ELSEVIER. ELSEVIER. 17 Nov. 2011. Web. 1 Apr. 2017. Huddleston, Tom, Jr. This Map Shows How Legalized Marijuana Is Sweeping the Fortune.com. Fortune. 30 June 2016. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Levy, Robert A. Yes, States Can Nullify Some Federal Laws, Not  Cato Institute. Daily Business. 18 Mar. 2013. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Maus, Craig. Nullification & Secession What You Must  From the Trenches World Report. From the Trenches World Report. 13 Nov. 2012. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. McGorrian, Dr. Grace M. Pot Used to Be Pretty Harmless, but Plenty Dangerous  Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. 24 May 2015. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Student 7 Marijuana Law and Legal USLegal, Inc. US Legal, Inc., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Mission and  Drug Policy Alliance. Drug Policy Alliance, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Swift, Art. For First Time, Americans Favor Legalizing  Gallup.com. Gallup Inc. 22 Oct. 2013. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Volkow, Nora D., Ruben D. Baler, Wilson M. Compton, and Susan R.B. Weiss. Adverse Health Effects of Marijuana  The New England Journal of Medicine. U.S. National Library of Medicine. 05 June 2014. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.