Parker1 Madeline Parker Professor Derisi ENC 1101 13, April 2017 The Evolution of Electric Cars Gasoline powered cars have gave society many benefits throughout the years, but people might not realize the horrible effects they have as well. Using up these fossil fuels to power these cars is harmful to the environment, and buying them is expensive. Luckily engineers have designed a car that is powered on electricity. The evolution of electric cars is on an uprise. People may begin to notice that next to a gas station they will see a charging station for electric cars. Electric cars are becoming more common nowadays because people are realizing the benefits they give to themselves and the environment. A lot of people do not realize that th ecar they drivemight be harming them. They release toxic fumes into the air everyone breathes, putting health at risk. Consuming a lot of CO2 that gasoline cars produce can lead cancerous diseases. If people continue to switch over to the electric Coupe they can also save money because they are not spending money on gas. Instead they would just leave their car on the charger when their home and it will be fully charged to get them to their destinations. They could also leave it to charge at charging stations. There are beginning to be more stations throughout the cities. They could be in a restaurant or school parking lot so it is convenient for people to charge their cars while they are there. The rise of electric cars is slowly taking over gasoline ones and maybe soon enough they will be more common than gasoline powered cars. Parker2 As most people realize the human population is steadily increasing every year. This causes the urban living to increase as well, following by the effects of it which is leading to the production of more cars. This will create more air pollution. The exhaust on gasoline cars produce  air pollution, greenhouse gases, noise and local temperatures and dwindling green spaces have resulted in stressors on the . (Khreis1) People also do not realize that this can affect their health including mortality, decreased lung function in children, diabetes, infant mortality, lung cancer, obesity, and respiratory  Khreis states in his Journal of Transport and Health. (Khreis 1) He also continues to talk about how air pollution greatly effects pregnant woman, causing low birth weight, infant mortality, and preterm birth. All of these are examples of the effects that gasoline cars have on the environment. This is why this generation needs to create the stepping stones to the trend of electric cars for the sake of health. Electric cars will especially eliminate the pollution in highly populated areas since there are so many cars in the city. It can greatly benefit people who live in urban areas because they do not have to drive great distances as to those in rural areas. It is important to take in mind these risks that gasoline powered cars create before they get too extreme. Beijing, China is known for one of the most polluted areas in the world, but it is not even at the top of the lists. People will wake up to what they think are foggy mornings, but really it is just the air pollution very condensed. People walk through the city inhaling nitrogen oxides, which could be slowly causing lung cancer. If electric cars do not continue to take over gasoline ones there will be great environmental consequences. There are so many reasons why people should be driving electric powered cars instead of gasoline ones. People use to not be able to afford them but now they make affordable electric powered cars. Now there is no excuse to not be driving one. Before, when electric cars were just Parker3 being manufactured, most people thought they were more for luxury living and not a lot of people could afford then. Nowadays certain car manufacturers produces electric cars that are affordable and are almost the same price as gasoline cars would be. For the new model of the Smart coupe, that is electric powered, can be owned for about 6,500 dollars. Comparing this to a common bought car, Toyota Camry, which is sold for about 26,000dollars. Now that is a huge difference in price. The switch to driving electric cars could save people a lot of money. The Smart Coupe is very affordable for a car on market. They are becoming the smart new trend for society. Another main reason why more people are switching to electric cars is because they do not have to buy gasoline. Paying for a car is already a huge expense and so is to keep it running. The unpredictable prices for gasoline leave people with less money to be spending. Driving a gasoline powered car also creates a high demand for gas for the owner. Electric powered cars do not need any expensive fluids to fuel them. People simply just plug in their car battery to a charger and let it sit to give it energy to drive. Now that sounds a lot cheaper than driving an electric cars. People should switch to electric powered car to benefit their bank accounts. An article by The Union of Concerned Scientists have researched that the average person spends more than 22,000 dollars every year on gasoline. That is almost as much as the car self! A lot of people may also not realize that driving an electric car also means that they do not have to pay for oil changes. Getting oil changes are an inconvenience to people and just another expense to add to the books of driving gasoline powered cars. The average person drives 25,000 miles a year and gasoline powered cars need an oil change every 3,000 miles. That means that on average a gasoline power car needs 8 oil changes a year, and they can cost anywhere between 30 to 60 dollars. There are so many more expenses behind driving a gasoline powered car that puts Parker4 dents in wallets. There are no tricks behind driving an electric powered car though. People should switch to electric powered cars because it will save the thousands of dollars. This is a huge benefit that will affect people in a great way. The article also continues to talk about how spending less money on gas and more for other companies can increase more job opportunities in the United States. If more people drive electric powered cars it will lead to a decrease of the purchase of oil. The Department of Bureau of Labor Statistics has researched that extracting oil and gas produces less than one job per $1 million of . The oil industry does not employ a lot of people compared to the money their making. If consumers reduce spending on gasoline, they spend more money in areas of the economy such as retail, which employs about 12 people per $1 million of  The Department of Bureau of Labor Statistics also claims. If the rise of electric cars continues to increase, then less money will be spent on gasoline. Instead, this money can be spent on other things around the city, creating more jobs for people in America who desperately need it. Therefore electric cars not only reduce pollution and save people money, but also help create more jobs in the work field. Besides from all the major benefits electric cars provide, a lot of people prefer to buy the electric powered cars because of how they drive. Electric cars are a quite drive compared to gasoline and diesel cars. They are quite because of they do not have internal combustion engines like gasoline automotive do. When someone gets in an electric car and turns it on, it will be completely quite. They also have newer internal features in the car because of how new the models are. Tesla manufactures a car that does not have a power on button or ignition. The owner of a Tesla simply keeps their key on them and the car turns on once it sensors that the key is inside the vehicle. Electric cars have the ability to have better internal features because they Parker5 are powered on electricity. Most cities are already adjusting to the electric car lifestyle. There are becoming more charging stations at restaurants, schools, and other local places. It is also easier to manage electric cars because it is very simple to charge them. Most people just leave their car to charge over night in their garage so it will have a full battery the next day. The Tesla web page advertises that their car can charge up to 52 miles per hour it is on the charger. They also have a  that can charge the car to drive 170 miles in as little as 30 minutes. People can save trips to the gas station and just leave their car on a charger to fuel it. Taking into thought of all the benefits electric cars bring it would be a loss to not own one. People need to make the switch as soon as possible. There are many benefits from driving electric cars. There are a lot of pros from driving them including health benefits, saving money, creating more job opportunities in society, and just the luxury of driving them.. They can prevent illnesses because they do not produce carbon monoxide into the environment. Driving electric cars help the human race conserve their fossil fuels by not wasting gas. It is so important that people start taking the advantage of how cars can be powered on electricity. Driving electric cars can help people save an abundance of money every year because they do not have to buy gasoline to fill up their tank not do they have to pay for oil changes. People are wondering why electric cars were not engineered sooner because of how valuable they are. The electric car evolution is great for humans and the environment. People need to realize all the benefits they bring, and next time they are in a car dealership they need to purchase a car ran on electricity. If the world converts their gasoline cars to electric, people will start to see their lives and environment change for the better. (WC: 1744) Parker6 Resources All-Electric  Www.fueleconomy.gov - the official government source for fuel economy information. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.fueleconomy.gov/feg/evtech.shtml>. Delang, Claudio O. and Wai-Tung Cheng. Attitudes Towards Electric Cars: A Case Study of Hong  Transportation Research Part D, vol. 17, 01 Aug. 2012, pp. 492- 494. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.trd.2012.04.004. Drivers Spend Almost as Much on Gas as They Paid for Their  Union of Concerned Scientists. N.p., 04 Feb. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. 0358.html#.WPPQjoWcE2y>. Britt A. and Karen M. Sentoff. Hybrid-Electric Passenger Car Carbon Dioxide and Fuel Consumption Benefits Based on Real-World  Environmental Science & Technology, vol. 49, no. 16, 18 Aug. 2015, pp. 10199-10208. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1021/acs.est.5b01203. Kerstetter, Jim. Tech Roundup: Why Regulation Benefits (Yes, Benefits) Electric  The New York Times, 2017. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.486837666&site=eds-live. Khreis, Haneen, et al. The Health Impacts of Traffic-Related Exposures in Urban Areas: Understanding Real Effects, Underlying Driving Forces and Co-Producing Future Parker7  Journal of Transport & Health, vol. 3, 01 Sept. 2016, pp. 249-267. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jth.2016.07.002.  Tesla, Inc. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. <https://www.tesla.com/>. The Benefits of Driving an Electric Car; Find out How the 100% Electric Nissan LEAF Takes  The Guardian (London, England), 2015. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.403028061&site=eds-live. Upton, John. Which City Has the Worst Air Pollution in the  Slate Magazine. N.p., 05 Mar. 2013. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.