Michal Alsaaid Ins. Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 23 March 2017 Smoking Ban and Restrictions in Public Places in the US Many governments around the globe started forcing smoke-free policies. At some point, smoking was legal in public spaces and indoor buildings in the United states of America. As a matter of fact, New York City has some pretty strict regulations when it comes to smoking in public areas such as parks, and also beaches. More to mention about the City of New York is that you have to be 21 or older to smoke over there. While in other places it is even okay to walk into a bar with a cigarette. However, the American Non-smokers Rights Association, stated that a figure of 82% of the United States nation are living in smoke-free environment (Kelsey.2015). The state of California was first to adopt some prohibition laws of smoking in public back in 1998, half of states followed right after and forced a variety of banning regulations. Nevertheless, a very important historical part is the surgeon report, The Health Consequences of Involuntary Exposure to Tobacco Smoke, because it did help and indeed made a powerful add to the public opinion. Despite the fact that some people even smoke, they are still exposed to secondhand smoking at work and that could actually get the chance of them having heart diseases increased by 25 to 30 percent, and also can causes a 20 to 30 percent increase in lung cancer chances (Dusenberry.2007). There for, the government of the United States has made significant decisions to protect and reserve the right of its citizens to breath healthy. However, this leads us to the question of when, how and why did the government of the US did ban smoking in public areas? Throughout the past era, all studies made on smoking and second-hand smoking were against it, which means that the conversation regarding this topic really changed to an opposite opinion. However, the facts and studies related the topic of smoking in public spaces has been proven in a more powerful way each year. The development of these claims over the years is due to the new technologies and more specific studies in this field. According to Annie Tegan, the senior program manager in Americans for Rights, social norms are changing. When people go to work they expect to breathe smokefree air. People are understanding the dangers of second-hand Which means that people really do support the facts that smoking in public spaces is not only risky when it comes to health problems, but also public behavior rejects such bad actions that could make a bad example in front of children. More to mention is the fact that most people do actually prefer to be completely living in a smoke-free area rather than being exposed to second hand tobacco smoke. However, tobacco smoke contains all dangerous effects on human body throughout long period of times that could take while to actually be noticed and be treated the right way. Fortunately, according to the World Health Organization, parts of Canada and the United States of America (USA) have been made smoke-free through provincial or state legislation. Now, 80% of Canadians and 50% of USA residents live in a jurisdiction with all public and workplaces smoke-free, including bars and Looking more closely at what great benefits smoke-free policies can actually do, more and more people would be willing to show some bravery and participate in banning these kind of action that can have an impact on society and on the global scale as well. The World Health organization encourage these cells of people by posting is the new norm. fall behind. Claim your right to be 100% smoke-free It is more than obvious that smoking is responsible of many diseases that can be permanent even on someone who could be a none smoker all his life, but is being exposed to tobacco smoke every day, live somewhere with no smoke0free policies around or even work with people who smoke in there breaks and free time. As Michael Tynan a public health analyst said percentage of the U.S. population that is protected increased from 2.72% in 2000 to 47.8% in 2010 and 49.6% in 2015. Regional disparities remain in the proportions of state populations covered by state or local comprehensive smoke-free policies, as no state in the southeast has a state comprehensive These figures actually states the actions on how they are trying to save people from things that they even notice until something bad happens. In conclusion, the studies and conversation on the topic of smoking changed since the early begging of researching this matter. However, the facts and studies related the topic of smoking in public spaces has been proven in a more powerful way each year. The development of these claims over the years is due to the new technologies and more specific studies in this field. Nevertheless, opinions on second hand smoking and appear to not change whatever the smokers and their sellers might say. Work Cited World health organization. Smoke-free  World health organization. N.p., 31 May 2007 Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Tynan, Michael. State Smoke-Free Laws for Worksites, Restaurants, and Bars --- United States, 2000--2010. Rep. 15th ed. Vol. 60. USA: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2011. Print. 472-475. Thomson, G., Wilson, N., Collins, D., & Edwards, R. (2015). Attitudes to smoke-free outdoor regulations in the USA and Canada: A review of 89 surveys. Tobacco Control, 25(5), 506-516.14 Sep 2017. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The Health Consequences of Years of Progress: A Report of the Surgeon General. Atlanta, GA: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health, 2014. Web. 18 Feb. 2017.