D a u n d i 1 Herdomina Daundi ENC1101 Anastasia Khawaja The Life of Factory Labor For factories have been successful in providing the society with their needs from primary to tertiary; the food, clothes and many things come straight from the factories. However, behind this large production of the factories there are many workers who are suffering in their workplace which play critical impact on their lives. From horrible working place, the increase in working hours (Zhang, 2015), to child labor (China Labor Watch, 2011). This issue has been discussed long before the factories could produce as many as they can in this modern era yet, in the recent days many Chinese laborers still cannot get out of this issue. Even though the government has passed laws to protect the working condition of the life of the factory labors, many workers in China still find it hard to express their legal rights, and therefore we need the government to pay more attention to the of the 21 st century. Before the 21 st century, because the lack of attention that the government gave to the businesses in the country or what is said to be laissez-faire government which according to Dictionary.com means that theory or system of government that upholds the autonomous character of the economic order believing that government should intervene as little as possible in the direction of economic The life of the working class before the 21 st century was horrific, as supported by Sinclair in his book The Jungle which exposed the life of the laborers in the Western area where there is not difference between them. For the workers, the factory provided them a place to stay which named the tenement house. Based on the D a u n d i 2 information gathered by Roberts, as the factory needed big outcome from low income, the tenement house was made with as little money as the factory could spend. As for the factory to maintain higher profit, the factory has to keep a low outcome which affected the salary of the workers. As one of the biggest part of the company, the workers have a main role on increasing the income of the company (Zhang, 2015). Based on the data collected by the researches, the high working hours of the workers is one of the factor of the branch of the factory overseas (Zhang, 2015). However, after more than 12 hours working these workers still receive low salary. According to Roberts, the single women in China have even lower wages that the other workers. This factor is caused by the stereotype of the single women could not get married because of their education or social status. As supported by Sinclair in the Western area, these women are mostly immigrants who came from a rural area and the main reason they went to the urban area is mostly from economic perspective. Not just women, according to the China Labor Watch, they found that there are three small factories in China that hired children as their workers. These children were probably immigrants because they came with their parent, the hard life of the urban area forced these children to work so they can help their parents. Even the government do not pay attention to the working class, there are people fighting for the rights of the workers. When the workers could not come together to protest the kind of treatment they got from the factory, there are many people from various background who came together to form labor movements to help these workers (McKormick, 2011). Based on McKormick, after the horror tragedy of the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory Fire, many people realized the poor condition of the working place of these women. The limited fire exit costed the life of many women. Therefore, people came together and formed labor movement. The famous D a u n d i 3 one in China is China Labor Watch who found hundreds of workers in seven huge automobile factories forced to work for extra hours without extra salary. Even after all the fights the workers and the labor movement made, these people still cannot express their legal rights. Many people are still strangling to feed their family. Therefore, the China government should have given more attention to everything that is going on inside the factory even though the factories also have big impact on the economy of the country. D a u n d i 4 Citation . n.d. Web. McCormick, Marcia L. Consensus, Dissensus, and Enforcement: Legal Protection of Working Women from the Time of the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory Fire to  NYUJ Legis. & Pub. 14 (2011): 645 Gabriel, S.J. Zhang, Lu. Inside automobile factories: the politics of labor and worker  CHOICE: Current Reviews for Academic Libraries 2015: 1557. Literature Resource Center. Web.