Gartrell 1 Dylan Gartrell ENC1102.099 B. Botkin 28 April 2017 On March 23 rd , 2010, a bill was signed into legislation that would have a drastic impact on the healthcare systems and many other government programs. This bill was the Affordable Care Act. This bill outlined the affordability of healthcare for the lower class, those who could not previously afford the aforementioned healthcare. This bill has been heavily criticized for what it has done to the healthcare system, even to the extent that the abolishment of this program was a major campaigning point for the 45 th President of the United States, Donald Trump. Every year the affordable care act consumes over $346 billion tax dollars to fund the program. These funds, along with those received through other programs works to provide healthcare to an approximated 11.4 million people as of 2017. This multi-modal argument will explore why it is crucial for all Americans to understand both the risks and benefits of the Affordable Care Act as it both directly and indirectly impacts their daily lives. The Affordable Care Act was advertised as a healthcare bill that for the first time, would allow all of those who previously could not afford health insurance to be able to afford it. However, this is not half of what the bill does, The Affordable Care act is more than a healthcare bill. It has been responsible for driving up the prices of health care premiums as well as caused the interest rate on federally funded student loans to increase (Congress). This result can be seen as counterproductive; create a healthcare program for the lower class that results in healthcare becoming unaffordable for the middle class. The Affordable Care Act, or ACA is Gartrell 2 funded mostly through tax dollars that are collected. Not only are healthcare recipients responsible for paying their own health insurance, but the taxes that are collected go towards paying health care premiums, so the consumer is essentially paying twice for their health insurance. On the topic of premiums, since the enactment of the Affordable Care Act on March 23 rd , 2010, healthcare premiums have found themselves driven up over 24.4% what the market average would have been (Blase). On a contrasting note, the ACA has had a positive impact on the healthcare coverages for those over the age of 55, allowing those who have served their time as a contributing member of society to be covered as they approach retirement. Since the installment of the ACA, individual medical costs are approximately 69% greater than what natural market growth would have produced (Blase). Along with these tremendous surges in insurance premiums and individual care costs, the ACA enacted multiple penalties targeted towards those who are not covered by some form of health insurance, be it under the Affordable Care Act, or another health care provider. The base penalty for not having coverage is 2.5% of total income. (Healthcare.gov) Make your voice heard and make healthcare great again. The viability and future of this law lies in the hands of the American. It is the vote of each individual citizen that dictates which politicians are elected into office, where they are then able to vote either in favor of, or against bills and legislation such as the Affordable Care Act. It is crucial to understand exactly who each representative being sent to D.C is, and what they believe in. It is argued that some of the largest changes in history have been derived from protests. As a whole it is important to understand the power and impact each American can have on the pace of government. Gartrell 3 The Affordable Care Act can be a very beneficial piece of legislation or a tremendous financial burden based on income and socio-economic status. This bill was targeted towards those who find themselves below the poverty line, and places a financial burden on the middle and upper class through imposed taxes and surges in health care premiums. The viability of this healthcare plan is brought into question when considering the means by which it was brought into legislation. The Affordable Care Act is a piece of legislation brought about by the 44 th President of The United States, Barack Obama, a democrat. In addition to this, both the Senate and House of Representatives were in the presence of a majority democratic body. Despite this bill being rejected multiple times, it was eventually modified to be more favorable to the beliefs of politicians and was finally passed on March 23 rd of 2010. In continuing forward, it will be essential to take into consideration the means by which this bill came into legislation to understand how it will impact millions of American citizens for years to come. Gartrell 4 Works Cited Blase, Brian. Overwhelming Evidence That Obamacare Caused Premiums To Increase  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 02 Aug. 2016. Web. 01 May 2017. Congress, 108th. Public Law 108-197 108th  PsycEXTRA Dataset (n.d.): n. pag. PUBLIC LAW 23 Mar. 2010. Web. 1 May 2017. Healthcare.gov. Individual Mandate Penalty You Pay If You Have Health Insurance  HealthCare.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 May 2017.