Vilardo !1 Christina Vilardo Alison Missler ENC 1102 16 April 2017 No More (Gender) Norms Have you ever used the phrase will be Perhaps you said that somebody untalented performed an action a Both of these derogatory phrases and many others just like them are unfortunately used every day in normal conversations between parents and their children, brothers and sisters, and friends. It is a common misconception that gender roles are an innate part of life. Children actually become aware of gender and gender stereotypes around the age of three and these behaviors remain constant through age five (MacNish 6-7). Although adults tend to think the children subconsciously follow gender stereotypes, there has been research conducted proving that young children are directly affected and damaged by these learned behaviors. For this reason, it is important that adults who are looking to become parents become aware of their use of gender stereotypes in order to eliminate them from their conversations. Babies are taught gender stereotypes and norms after they are born, but it is often mistaken that the norms they learned are innate. The only thing that a baby knows is basic survival skills. They know to cry when they are hungry or hurt and to turn their head and open their mouths to feed as a reflex when something grazes their cheek. However, gender norms are not among the basic skills that they know. If you have ever attended a baby shower or visited a newborn in a hospital, you most likely noticed the abundance of pink and princesses for girls or Vilardo !2 blue and sports themes for boys. As babies grow and develop, these ideas of masculine and feminine are pushed on them in order to make a clear divide between genders, tells us that girls and boys are bombarded with messages about sex roles from birth. They learn gender- specific behaviors through toys, games, stories, (Gropper 11). As babies grow, parents and adults tend to make these damaging over-generalizations and push them onto children by buying them or oriented toys or clothes that make children subconsciously group themselves with those of their own gender and pull away from those of the opposite gender. As babies develop from infants to children, the ideas that have been put in place by adults become engrained in their minds. Children are sponges that absorb every ounce of information that they come in contact with, which is why it is important that they are learning things in an unbiased manner. As early as three years old, girls can distinguish between genders, identify with their own gender, and in a study it was proven that they begin to prejudice against their male schoolmates and peers (Biemmi 131). They are able to do so because from the time they were born, both boys and girls are pushed to choose between feminine or masculine toys, games, tv shows, movies, etc. Children cannot go down the aisles of Walmart or Toys R Us without seeing advertisements of girls playing with feminine toys in feminine color schemes or boys playing with masculine toys in masculine color schemes. Kids see how they are to act by seeing children of the same gender conforming to gender roles and they tend to follow suit which ultimately damages their social development. As children develop into teenagers, they attend middle and high school where they are constantly bombarded with gender roles by their fellow classmates. Since teens have grown up in Vilardo !3 these stereotypes from their families and society, they carry them into the classroom. Think back to your time in middle school or high school. Do you recall boys being made fun of because they were not as masculine as their peers or perhaps making fun of the who did not conform to femininity? It turns out that more than 50% of children in grades six through ten have been bullied or have been impacted in some way by bullying (Steinfeldt 341). Teens use the stereotypes that they have learned from adults in their early years of development to hurt and embarrass their peers which ruins their social lives. Many adults tell teens to it because things will be better after high school; however, it is a sad reality that bullying can lead to suicide. Suicide in 2016, according to the New York Times, has increased to the highest level in thirty years (Tavernise). Your actions in shaping children can ultimately decrease the suicide rate, in teasing and bullying behavior will affect what children learn about gender roles in school settings and (Gropper 13). Parents and adults must acknowledge the bullying and put an end to it. If teasing and bullying persists too long, it can ultimately lead to suicide. It is important to teach children that bullying is never okay, especially bullying that has to deal with gender stereotypes. Teachers are also to blame for engraining derogatory behaviors in teens minds. They often project norms without realizing it, main conduit through which sexist stereotypes enter the school consists of those same teachers who, often unknowingly, project expectations onto students that differ based on their (Biemmi 132). Although it is unintentional, when students see teachers acting in a certain way they are more likely to view that behavior as acceptable and mimic what teachers are doing. Vilardo !4 It is essential that parents and adults in society know that the things they say are incredibly damaging to the youth at all stages of development. It seems incredibly simple, but it is important that adults are aware of the gender stereotypes that they use and actively work to stop using those norms on children. In order to do so, adults must be mindful of the things that they do. One of the easiest things that you can do is to stop and think about what you are going to say or do before you do it. Before you buy a little girl the frilly pink princess doll, consider buying games or toys that are gender neutral. Do not bombard girls with toys and products that are only pink and sparkly or vice versa. Encourage children to be traits that are commonly seen as only for one gender. For example, encourage boys to be more nurturing or for girls to be sporty. The most important thing that you can do for your child or for children in society is to shut down stereotypes that you hear or see them using. Again, children are sponges that absorb everything that they encounter. If you can reverse the damage done by others or make them change their way of thinking, it could cause a ripple effect. Stereotypes can ruin not only the lives of children but also an entire society. Your actions cause a ripple throughout lives. By bombarding babies with ideas of gender roles you are causing babies to grow up and apply those gender roles to their lives. By becoming aware of your use of gender stereotypes and limiting them, you can prevent the next generation from their damaging effects. Your actions help shape the next generation, let the next generation down. Vilardo !5 Works Cited Biemmi, Irene. Gender Stereotypes in Childhood: When Is Difference  Education Sciences & Society, vol. 6, no. 2, July 2015, pp. 127-135. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login? Gropper, Nancy and Merle Froschl. The Role of Gender in Young Teasing and Bullying Behavior. 01 Apr. 1999. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http:// search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eric&AN=ED431162&site=eds-live. MacNish, Melissa. Gender Identity  Encyclopedia of Children, Adolescents, and the Media (n.d.): pp. 6-7 LGBT Health Education. 2 Oct. 2015. Accessed 13 Apr. 2017. Steinfeldt, Jesse A., et al. Bullying among Adolescent Football Players: Role of Masculinity and Moral  Psychology of Men & Masculinity, vol. 13, no. 4, Oct. 2012, pp. 340-353. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1037/a0026645. Tavernise, Sabrina. U.S. Suicide Rate Surges to a 30-Year  The New York Times. The New York Times, 22 Apr. 2016. Accessed 13 Apr. 2017.