ARMED AND NOT DANGEROUS ALEX V FERNANDEZ UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH FLORIDA Armed and not dangerous The 21st century has been marked by a drastic spark in the number of mass shootings in the United States. Public and private institutions of learning have historically proven to be vulnerable targets. This is due to their ease of access and centralized target base, the threat of mass school shootings is very real. College campuses have recognized this threat and acted accordingly by employing full time university police and completing mass shooting training scenarios. However many public schools around the country do not employ armed police guards and remain very vulnerable to this threat. This issue has been discussed recently, however no ultimatum has been met regarding a solution. By signing our petition to employ and fund armed guards in public schools across the nation, you can be a part of the solution. Some would argue that the implementation of these guards could have adverse effects on the students, however the benefits and overall safety of each outweighs the potential effects. Since the the year 2000 there has been over 180 recorded school shootings in the United States Looking at this data, 153 of those shootings occurred at public schools Despite this alarming number, only about a third of schools in the United States actually actively employ armed guards (Bond, M). This is a sharp contrast to the 89% of college campuses who employ some sort of police force or armed guard system (Bureau of Justice Statistics). The public schools that do not employ armed guards instead rely on local police departments for any security assistance. While this does save the school money, this puts the students at an increased risk of gun violence. During mass shootings the vast majority of injury or death occurs in the first 5 minutes of any event (Gius Mark). Mass shooters usually do not care about who they are shooting, rather their motive is to kill as many people as quickly as possible. Historically, the average response time for police responding to an emergency call for a school shootings is 18 minutes therefore the majority of the damage from a school shooting has already occurred before authorities are even on the grounds (National Sheriffs Association). By adding armed guards in public schools, authorities will have a much faster response and mitigate the damage caused by the shooter. This equates to less lives lost from a rampaging shooter. Another added bonus of adding authorities is to act as a deterrent for school shootings. Mass killers generally target vulnerable locations without the fear of repercussion If you Armed and not dangerous look at the most recent mass shootings they include places such as movie theaters, office spaces, social clubs and of course schools. These are places with a large congregation of individuals, but little to no armed presence around. By adding the presence of an armed guard in the vicinity shooters are far less likely to actively pursue these locations as potential targets. This theory has actually come into practice at many private schools around the country. The majority of private schools employ some sort of armed guard system and report a much lower overall number for school shootings This can be directly attributed to the threat an armed guard poses to the shooter. This safeguard effect can be compared to a security system on a home. Statics show that that homes without a security system are 3 times more likely to be burglarized than a home with a system (Maurer C) This effect proves that those wanting to commit a crime will choose the path of least resistance or in this case a vulnerable public school. Critics of armed guards would argue that the presence of weapons around children might have certain psychological effects on students, however there are benefits to this presence as well. Bullying has been an ongoing issue inside of public schools, with many students performance suffering as a result (Afroz). One underlying cause of bullying is the lack of authoritative oversight on students, quite simply not enough eyes to catch every problem (Afroz). While armed guards may not solve the problem completely, these guards are able to serve as another set of eyes on the students. Students who conduct bullying will also fall under the effect and will be less likely to engage in such activities when authoritative figures are able to provide more oversight over students actions. In addition with the rise of school shootings, and the spread of news via social media, students are more aware than ever of the threat. In fact New York Times conducted a survey on whether or not students would feel safer with armed guards around and the the answers were overwhelmingly in favor (Gonchar M). One student is quoted as saying I would certainly feel completely safer with an armed guard patrolling Chapel when we are having classes. as I live in a dangerous country, I know how it feels to be vulnerable to (Gonchar M). This is a stark contrast to the information put out by critics. School age children and teens are much more desensitized to violence than ever before, Armed and not dangerous therefore this presence of guns in their vicinity does not seem to pose adverse effects but rather positive effects on their psychological mindset. Finally the last hurdle in the implementation of armed guards lies in funding. It is true that many public schools are unable to afford the manning of full time guards with their school budget alone. The answer to this issue lies in government grants rather than the school themselves shouldering the cost. Many public schools already apply for grants on athletic facilities such as the 60 million dollar football stadium in Allen Texas, therefore allocating this grant money towards something as paramount as students safety, would be much more beneficial (LA Times Gerber M). In order to achieve this goal, support needs to start from the ground up to show school boards around the nation that the public demands safety. By signing this petition https://www.change.org/p/u-s-department-of-education-implement-mandatory-armed-security-gu ards-in-all-public-schools you can provide the valuable support needed to ensure the safety and protection of children. Life is fragile, do not wait for another massacre such as Sandy Hook to occur before preventative action takes place. It starts with you, spread the word to help bring vigilance to this important movement. Armed and not dangerous References N. (2013). shootings. [electronic : international research, case studies, and concepts for New York : Springer, c2013. Bond, Mark. Academic Analysis: Should Armed Security Forces Defend Our Schools Against Gun  Public N.p., 13 Apr. 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Campus Law  of Justice Statistics Bureau of Justice Statistics, n.d. Maurer, Caroline. Can Fake Security Signs and Stickers Keep Your Home  Huffington Post, 22 July 2016. Gerber, Marissa. After Texas High School Builds $60-million Stadium, Rival District Plans One for Nearly $70  Angeles Los Angeles Times, n.d. Gonchar, Michael. Would You Feel Safer With Armed Guards Patrolling Your  New York The New York Times, 18 Jan. 2013. 7. Jan, A., & Husain, S. (2015). Bullying in Elementary Schools: Its Causes and Effects on Students. Of Education And 43-56. The Long, Shameful List of School Shootings in  N.p., 10 Apr. 2017.