Slater, 1 Connor Slater Composition 2 Kevin Ip 4/12/17 Sports and athletic activities have been defined over the years in many ways. A sport is said to be activity involving physical exertion and skill in which an individual or team competes against another or others for of a Oddly enough, cheerleading is an activity that has not yet been considered a sport. To many, this is alarming, for the simple reason that cheerleading perfectly fits the definition of a sport. Teams compete against each other to lead a crowd and put on a performance for others to enjoy. Cheerleading has been in the background for many years and because of its dangerous feats and its perfect fit to the definition of a sport, people should strive to make cheerleading a very popular and well known sport. The first organized cheerleading association was created in 1948 by Lawrence Herkimer, called the National Cheerleaders Association (NCA) (About NCA). was a nickname for Lawrence, which later became a type of jump in the cheerleading world. Another major association called the Universal Cheerleaders Association (UCA) was founded in 1974 by Jeff Webb (About UCA). The two different associations had different goals for their cheerleaders, but never had a problem with one another. The first cheerleading competition did not occur until 1982, which jumpstarted an activity that would soon be known and practiced world-wide (About NCA). Not many people had known the abilities of cheerleaders because they were only ever shown on the sidelines at other sporting events. After the first competition, Slater, 2 cheerleading became more and more competitive, with people trying harder and more interesting tricks. With harder stunts, pyramids, and tumbling came more risk. Cheerleading has become one of the most dangerous activities that is practiced in the world. An article was written by B H Jacobson, B Redus, and T Palmer about the injuries that occurred in cheerleading. They start the article off by stating that 50% of all catastrophic injuries in sports occur in cheerleading, but unlike other sports, no central tracking system (Jacobson et. al). That fact alone says very much about how dangerous cheerleading is. There are hundreds of different sports in the world, and if 50% of all injuries in every sport come from one activity, that should be enough to deem cheerleading a sport. Although the actual definition of a sport does not include anything about injuries, there is still plenty of information to back up the argument that cheerleading should be a sport. The definition of a sport states that the teams compete for entertainment for others, and that is exactly what cheerleading is. Cheer started off on the sidelines of games, getting crowds together and leading them with cheers and chants to praise and encourage their teams. This was the beginning of cheer, now there are full routines that cheerleaders put on as entertainment. These routines last approximately 2 and a half minutes with many different elements throughout them. The style of cheerleading depends on the association in which one competes, NCA cheerleading includes a dance and a jump sequence, while UCA cheerleading does not. Tumbling, stunting, pyramids, and a cheer are the other elements involved with both styles of cheerleading. Tumbling is the flipping, rolling, and twisting activities done on the ground in a routine. Stunting is the lifting, throwing and stacking of others, which then leads to pyramids which stack multiple people on top of each other to perform a very difficult and intricate stunt. A cheer is then added in the very middle of all these elements, lasting 45 seconds, and being the Slater, 3 most important part of the routine. These elements are all combined and judged both individually and as a whole (About UCA). Then, like all other sports, the team that earns the highest score wins the competition. The skills are assessed in many different ways, some including; technique, synchronization, spacing, sharpness, etc. The cheer is assessed on sign work, execution, difficulty, technique and many more elements (About UCA). Difficulty is the area that will score a team the most points if they are executed properly, which leads to harder stunts, tumbling, and pyramids. This is what makes cheerleading so entertaining, yet so dangerous at the same time. Although cheerleading is not a major part of many lives it should be a concern to many. There have been deaths reported from cheerleading, which should be alarming to many people. The best way for someone to understand how important it is to cheerleaders to make cheerleading a sport is to go to a competition. Instead of just noticing cheerleaders at another sporting event and watching them cheer someone on, go to a competition and see what the real cheerleading is about. Cheerleading competitions can be very eye opening, especially for someone who has never been involved in the activity. The stunts, pyramids, tumbling, and even the jumps blow people away because cheerleaders are able to do many tricks that most people cannot do. Not only are competitions great places to learn about cheerleading, so are actual college cheer team tryouts. Many different colleges allow spectators during their tryouts, including one of the most prestigious cheer schools, University of Kentucky. The UK coed cheer team has won UCA College Nationals 21 times and have been back to back champions many different years. Going to UK tryouts would be a real eye opener for many people because, on average, 150 boys and 200 girls tryout each year. That being said, only 20 individuals will represent the school at UCA College Nationals This is not only at the best of the best cheerleading schools either, it happens in many other schools too. For example, Slater, 4 Florida State University has a very well known all girl team, but making it is a very different story. Each year an average of 400 girls tryout each year, and only 25-30 girls make the team each year. This helps to show that cheerleading is very competitive and its not something that just anyone can do. It takes a lot of skill, practice, and competition. After going and seeing the performances by so many teams and seeing all the danger and interesting tricks, one may want to get involved in the movement. There is a petition online called Cheerleading a that can be electronically signed and sent to Congress. There have already been 528 messages sent so far, and with many more, the movement will be able to occur faster Cheerleading a If a petition like this goes to the government and the right associations with an abundance of signatures, it will make the argument even stronger to make cheerleading a sport. Although cheerleading does not impact the lives of many, it is a very dangerous and difficult activity, it should be made a sport for many reasons. Cheerleading fits the definition of a sport almost perfectly in that there is competition between multiple teams, with their main goal is to entertain a crowd better than the others. It is also a very dangerous activity that requires great amounts of skill and practice. Getting involved is as easy as signing a petition, or possibly going to a competition. Most people only know cheerleading as a sideline activity, used to lead a crowd, but there is a whole other side to cheerleading that many people do not know about. Slater, 5 Works Cited About  Varsity Spirit. Varsity Brands Inc., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. About  Varsity Spirit. Varsity Brands Inc., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cheerleading  University of Kentucky. UK Athletics, n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Definition of a  Oxford Dictionaries. Oxford University Press, n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Jacobson, B. H., B. Redus, and T. Palmer. An Assessment of Injuries in College Cheerleading: Distribution, Frequency, and Associated  British Journal of Sports Medicine. British Association of Sport and Excercise Medicine, 01 Apr. 2005. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Make Cheerleading a  Petition2Congress. Rally Congress, 28 July 2010. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.