Dalla Costa 1 Sarah Dalla Costa Andrew De Carion ENC 1102: Composition 2 12 March 2017 Image 2 Image 1 Dalla Costa 2 Genetically modified organisms (GMOs) are a relatively new movement in food market, and the everyday man is only recently becoming aware of it. There has been a lot of controversy concerning GMOs. Firstly, due to its unknown effects on not only human health, but also its effects on the environment. Many people have begun to take a stand and are demanding the labelling of foods that are genetically modified or contain traces of GMO. This can be largely credited to organizations against GMO products, The Non-GMO project being the most successful one, they describe themselves as a non-profit organization committed to preserving and building the non-GMO food supply, with an aim to educate consumers and the food industry and to help build awareness about GMOs impact on our health and food systems. (Non-GMO Project). In the two images above the non-profit organization The Non-GMO project is attempting to enact their mission of empowering consumers with information about GM products, they firmly believe everyone has a right to know what is in their food and deserves access to non-GMO choices. The organizations main goal is to have constant product verification, specifically products containing GMO ingredients. Both images explicitly state parts of their mission, Image 1 states is in your and Image 2 states is your right to know what is in your (The Non-GMO Project). The Non- GMO project employs rhetorical appeals such as, pathos, logos and ethos to focus on GMO in foods specifically to encourage people viewing the images to see their point of view on the issue, of the importance of knowing what is in your food. The Non- GMO project shines a light on the negative aspects of GM foods, by using logos to provoke a sense of fear in Image 1. It portrays an apple and an octopus intertwined, these two species are not something people will see coming together very often. Firstly, seeing these two together catches the attention and after more investigation, the Dalla Costa 3 viewer will notice the apple bears very sharp teeth, making it look monster-like. The teeth evoke fear in an individual, this is a characteristic commonly linked to or a bad thing in most situations, especially if a child sees it. The organization does a good job at getting people to feel like GMO products are a bad thing by using the teeth in this image. Secondly it states: is in your if viewers already worried about this by just looking at the picture, they would be now. This phrase was used as a tactic to reinforce what the cartoon at the side shows and to get viewers thinking and even investigating their foods more. These characteristics of the image effectively enforces the organizations mission, as viewers begin to subconsciously wonder about what is potentially in the food that they are consuming. In return the images will encourage consumers to purchase products with the organizations signature logo, indicating it is GMO free. Image 2 depicts the image of a skull, composed of healthy, seemingly natural produce with are what you in very bold text and below this reads our right to know in our foods. Pledge to choose Firstly, the skull makes viewers evaluate the foods they recently ate. The image makes people picture what they for example, someone with an unhealthy diet may see themselves made of sugary snacks and processed foods and forces them to ask themselves if this is what they want to have in their body. Secondly the phrase our right to know in our foods. Pledge to choose Non- creates a sense of anger as the viewer becomes aware that they may not be as informed about what they are consuming as they thought they were. This statement will again encourage those who view it to purchase Non-GMO verified products. The Non- effort to get the word out about their cause have proven effective as, the Non-GMO project executive director who states that is inspiring to see the growing passion being Dalla Costa 4 focused on the problem of GMO contamination (Westgate). This shows that their use of pathos, is assisting in achieving their goal of increasing the awareness of GMO products efficiently. The by using pathos, it naturally encourages people to think beyond what they see in the images. The organization appeals to logic, as both advertisements are thought jerkers and encourage people to analyze the ingredients of their food products. Image 1 forces people to take into consideration that genes from a completely different species may potentially be in their food, most of the population is unaware of this fact. In a survey done by the International Food Information Council 53% of the participants indicated that they had not heard much of or anything about GMO foods in grocery stores. (Non-GMO Report). This image brings awareness to that possibility and encourages them to decide whether they are okay with it or not, this stimulates the want for information about GMO products; which the organization provides. By doing research and reading articles provided by the organization they can become more informed about it. In Image 2 the image being portrayed, also appeals to logos as it encourages people to reevaluate their eating habits, as they may have never thought of viewing themselves from this perspective before, some people may not like the idea of what they like, hence encouraging them to change the things they eat. Secondly people may not know that they have a right to know what is in their food like the picture states, this will encourage people interested to do more research into the products they are buying and to find out the truth about what they are eating, they may even revert to buying Non-GMO project labelled foods. Dalla Costa 5 Both images use ethos by displaying the organizations signature butterfly logo, and image one reinforces the mission of the organization by stating that individuals have right to know what is in their food, this upholds the credibility and trustworthiness of both advertisements. This logo can be used as indication of trustworthiness as the National Sanitation Foundation (NSF) officially added the Non-GMO project as the only North American third party verified logo to its food safety auditing services in early 2014. (Ortenberg) .The organization gained this esteemed position due to the high level of precaution and testing done on products before they can be verified, they must pass a very thorough six step verification process; the core requirements are a based upon traceability, segregation and testing at critical control points [of the food production to verify that ingredients are not genetically modified (NSF International). The organizations website imbedded within its logo is also included in the images, this again establishes credibility as it offers the opportunity for individuals interested in finding out more about the organization to do so themselves by going to their website, which offers a plethora of topics to learn more about, including tips on choosing Non- GMO products, the information provided on the website establishes the credibility of the organization. This shows that the organization is confident in the information that they are providing indicating to the viewer that the information is credible. By using ethos, the organization is achieving their goal of informing people of the potential unknown ingredients in their food. Overall both Image 1 and Image 2 work hand in hand in conveying the message of the Non-GMO mission that people should know what is in the food they are consuming and if it contains GMOs. Both images include features of pathos, logos and ethos to help them portray this. The images evoke feelings of fear, anger and uncertainty in people viewing Dalla Costa 6 it, all because of the main factor of not knowing what they are consuming. The images effectively meet the organizations mission of empowering people through awareness in the debate against labelling of GMO products, as both images have powerful meanings such as consumer awareness hidden between the lines that can be unveiled by simply looking closely at them and taking the time to understand it. Dalla Costa 7 Works Cited Page Image 1. Johnson, Megan. Social Cause Ad- Non-GMO Project. Non-GMO Project. About the Non-GMO project. n.d. 09 Feb 2017. <https://www.nongmoproject.org/about/>. Non-GMO Report. Most U.S. consumers still unaware of genetically modified foods . 2011. 25 Feb 2017. NSF International. Non-GMO Project  2013. 25 Feb 2017. <www.nsf.org>. Ortenberg, Carol. NSF International Launches New Non-GMO Certification Program. 16 Sep 2015. Project NOSH. 16 Mar 2017. The Non-GMO Project. Mission. n.d. 25 Feb 2017. <https://www.nongmoproject.org/about/history/>. Westgate, Megan. The Non-GMO Project: Empowering Consumers, Protecting a Non-GMO Future (Response to  28 January 2011. 23 Feb 2017. <https://www.nongmoproject.org/blog/the-non-gmo-project-empowering-consumers- protecting-a-non-gmo-future/>.