Bunyon 1 Robert Bunyon Instructor Basil ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Funding of Planned Parenthood The topic of the funding Planned Parenthood is a dilemma that has been a source of controversy for many years. Planned Parenthood facilities are essential to those with financial hardships and to those who use their services for STDs and cancer screenings. Planned Parenthood is widely known for their role in performing abortions on women who desire to have one. To many people this is all they know about these facilities, and that needs to change. Without federal funding for these facilities, almost every one of them will have to shut down due to insufficient funds. Many people who are not involved with Planned Parenthood and do not utilize their services may not understand just how important these facilities are to society. If Planned Parenthood facilities were to become absent, then people with financial hardships would most likely go without contraceptives, risking having unsafe sex, which would increase the need for abortion services, which would be much harder to come by without Planned Parenthood. Conservative lawmakers wish to defund Planned Parenthood and outlaw abortion services, a costly decision for those who utilize Planned Parenthood services. It is already a known truth that the majority of conservative lawmakers are pro-life, or in other words anti-abortion, an example of this is Mississippi Gov. Phil Bryant, who said he wanted to end abortions in the state (Iaconangelo). The USF community is largely uninvolved, which needs to change because Planned Parenthood is a service that the men and women of USF may need to utilize in the future. There are ways to get involved to combat attacks by these lawmakers, such as attending protests and walks for rights and reaching out Bunyon 2 to lawmakers to try to persuade them to rethink what they are doing. The first step in fighting back is to educate those who are uninformed about the issue at hand. The facts about Planned Parenthood and its funding are not as widely known as they should be. Planned Parenthood facilities provide many services in addition to abortions, as Planned Parenthood is a provider of birth control, contraceptives, cancer, and STD screenings for those with financial hardships Our Many people do not look far enough into the issue on Planned Parenthood, usually spotting that Planned Parenthood is the largest provider of abortions in the United States and then not wanting to get involved on the topic because it is controversial. Many congressman attack Planned Parenthood and try to get congress to pass a bill that cuts off federal funding from being supplied to these facilities because they hope to eliminate all of these facilities and end their abortion services. These tactics are meant to attack Planned Parenthood and off the flow of taxpayers money to the largest provider of (Moritz). Something that many people know is that the federal funding for Planned Parenthood facilities does not include abortion services. Federal funding that is issued to Planned Parenthood facilities pays for preventative care screenings and supplies such as birth control and other contraceptives. Without federal funding being allocated to abortion services, women that are seeking an abortion must pay out of pocket to get the procedure done. So since they want to cut the funding from Planned Parenthood because of its abortion services, all of the other services that are provided such as STD and cancer screenings will not be available to financially troubled people who afford to get them done at other clinics. It is vital that everyone is informed on this topic so that the people could somehow take a vote to solidify Planned Parenthood in society. The next step in combatting the issue at hand is by getting the audience engaged on the topic. This topic should concern everyone in the USF community because it is a nationwide issue that could Bunyon 3 potentially affect any person in the country. The USF community should be especially concerned since many college-aged people utilize the services that Planned Parenthood facilities provide, such as access to birth control, pregnancy tests, contraceptives, and other preventive care services. These services are currently covered under federal funding so they are provided at little or no cost, something that may not be possible in the near future. A good amount of college-aged students are sexually active, which in turn causes them to rely on condoms and birth control to greatly decrease the chance of a pregnancy. Some who do not have access to contraceptives for any reason whether it be financial or personal, risk the chance and have unsafe sex, which could be avoided if they utilize Planned services. Anyone in your life may need to utilize these services sometime down the road, which is easily accessible to the USF community with a Planned Parenthood facility located in the Tampa area. These facilities are especially important to low income communities since they do not have good enough financial status to go to a primary health care provider. Low income families may rely on Planned Parenthood heavily since they are a much more affordable way of obtaining necessary contraceptives and screenings. The attack on the funding of Planned Parenthood is essentially an attack on low income families who utilize these services because there is little that they can do to combat these attacks on the state and national level due to financial constraints. Finally, getting involved in your community is the best way to get our voices heard. It is relatively easy to get involved either on the USF campus or out in the Tampa community. There is already a student organization in the USF community called Parenthood Generation they aim to educate and get students mobilized on informing students on reproductive health and rights (Wendland). Planned Parenthood also hosts its own events for people to go to and get involved, such as pride parades and festivals for anyone wanting to come out and support. If everyone who believes that the Bunyon 4 defunding of Planned Parenthood is wrong voiced their opinions in a focused and concise protest then this may not be such a problem in society today. It is difficult for a small group of people to create a difference, but if a good amount of people attend protests and events to speak their voices to congressman and lawmakers, then there is a good possibility that change will occur. It is the goal of groups like NARAL and the ACLU to keep Planned Parenthood federally funded organization and keep them a normal part of society. These groups are a large reason that Planned Parenthood already been defunded. These organizations list on their websites several ways to get involved and make a difference including how to contact local lawmakers, where to donate money to support these groups, and what events and protests to attend. As stated on their website, one of main objectives is to elect officials that will actually fight for reproductive freedom and care about the cause (NARAL). This is one of the many things that must be done in order to make an important difference in legislation. Change is something that takes a great amount of time and effort especially when talking about a nationwide issue. It takes an army of people who are motivated and involved to even have a chance at changing legislation on a topic such as Planned Parenthood. Beginning with informing people about the largely unknown facts and statistics on Planned Parenthood and its funding. After getting educated on the topic the next step is realizing how it affects you and the people in the community, that is the best way to get people engaged with the topic. After getting motivated the last step is getting involved and beginning to make a change for the community. Creating support groups and reaching out to state representatives can only help the cause to keep Planned Parenthood federally funded, which is a cause worth supporting in our society. Bunyon 5 Work Cited Page About Our  About Our Fees. Planned Parenthood of Central and Western New York, Inc. Https://www.plannedparenthood.org/planned-parenthood-central-western-new-york/patient-resources/ paying-your-health-care/about-our-fees#sthash.MLJLe6JY.dpuf, 25 Mar. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Calculations, Political. Political Calculations - The Providers of Abortion in the  Townhall. N.p., 18 Jan. 2012. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Iaconangelo, David. Planned Parenthood Wins Fight against Mississippi Funding  LexisNexis Academic. N.p., 21 Oct. 2016. Web. NARAL. Join the Fight for Reproductive  NARAL Pro-Choice America. NARAL Pro-Choice America, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Moritz, John C. GOP Targets Planned Parenthood  LexisNexis Academic. N.p., 16 Feb. 2017. Web. Wendland, Milton. Generation  Generation Action Generation Action. N.p., 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.