MacFarquhar 1 Dylan MacFarquhar Professor Kevin Ip ENC 1102 17 April 2017 Project 3: Debt-Free College Tuition With a total of $1.2 trillion, student loan debt is the largest form of personal debt in the United States. Every year, students graduate from college with mountains of debt which keeps them from getting jobs, buying homes, or supporting their families. It should not be a punishment if a person wishes to seek higher education and a change should most certainly be made to this system. By increasing the funding for Pell Grants, monitoring private sector inflation, and making in-state public tuition tax deductible, the United States will be able to fix the student loan debt crisis and provide its citizens with the education they need without putting them into debt. This can be accomplished by redistributing federal budgets, having more influence in private sector inflation, and creating state laws which allows in-state tuition to be tax deductible. It is imperative that qualified students are able to attend good schools so that innovation continues. Students should not be penalized for pursuing higher education because as stated earlier, having a college degree is an almost necessary qualification in order to enter workforce. This is why we must make it far easier for students to get the education they deserve, especially for students who attend in-state public universities. All in-state students who attend these universities come from families who pay taxes which go towards the same in-state public universities. According to College Board, the average tuition cost of attending an in-state public university is $9,650, so it is only right that these students are reimbursed for this money by MacFarquhar 2 rewarding the students back the money their families pay in taxes which go towards these schools (College Board). It is also important that the tax money which goes to these schools is closely monitored in order to assure that funds are going towards students and scholarships, rather than unnecessary expenses. It is only right that the tax dollars paid by families go back towards benefiting students and helping them pay for their education, not overpaid athletics coaches or unneeded facilities. There are many ways of correcting this issue but the most influential will be creating a tax deductible program for students attending in-state public universities. Rather than allocating all money for public universities back to the school, we can give a percentage of this money back towards the taxpayers if their children attend one of the schools. This will be far more beneficial to the students because as stated earlier, you will know that the money is going towards a needed cause rather than unnecessary expenses. This route would also take away the need for students to take out loans which will in turn put them into debt. Another way of accomplishing this goal of making college debt free is by increasing funding for Pell Grants. There has been a steady decrease in funding for Pell Grants over the last decade which is of great concern as it is the primary source of financial aid for many college students in the United States. According to On the Issues, this is the Democratic first step in stopping the trend of student loan debt as the maximum Pell Grant which is only given to a select few is only $5,700 (On the Issues). This is the maximum amount of money which can be given and since the average tuition for an in-state public university is $9,650, there is still a great deal of money left to pay. Also this is just the price of tuition and there are still other fees and expenses that come along with attending college, such as housing, meal plans, and MacFarquhar 3 textbooks. With a very uneven federal budget, a more even distribution of taxpayer money will allow the government to fund Pell Grants at a much higher level. The final solution that could be used to correct this issue is monitoring private sector inflation to assure that student loan interest rates do not increase by having more government intervention. According to the Federal Reserve, the average monthly student loan payment for borrowers ages twenty to thirty is $351 (Federal Reserve). This is already a high number to begin with, and according to Sophie Christie of The Sun, student loan interest rates are expected to continue to increase and eventually climb up 33% in the next five years. Many student loans are not government issued, but are instead distributed by private corporations which fluctuate their interest rates based on global market trends and consumer demand. If private sector inflation is regulated, it will ensure that student loan prices will not continue to increase and put future generations in even more debt than current students. By making in-state college tuition tax deductible, increasing Pell Grant funding, and regulating private sector inflation we can put an end to, or at the least diminish the student loan debt crisis and make public college debt-free. This is an issue that needs to be corrected as soon as possible for the longer we wait, more and more students are unable to reach their full potential due to financial reasons. However, if we implement these programs, many students will be given the opportunities they deserve and will go on the be innovators and outstanding members in society. MacFarquhar 4 Works Cited A Look at the Shocking Student Loan Statistics for  Student Loan Hero. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Christie, Sophie. Loan  The Sun. N.p., 13 Apr. 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Democratic Party on  On the Issues. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. the Price Tag for a College  College Data. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.