Hardy !1 Ariel Hardy Bob Botkin ENC 1102.099 16 April 2017 Physician assisted death (PAD) is a very controversial topic that is finding its way in to the news outlets, as it should. Physician assisted death is something that everyone deserves a say in because it deals with the standard of health care. Whether many people use physician assisted death or no one uses it, physician assisted death should still be an option, because the patient should be able to have many options, so that they can decide which works best for them. Physician assisted death often has a negative connotation, because it involves death. This paper will inform readers who PAD really involves, and it will explain and demand action in favor of PAD. Physician assisted death is a long process that has many safe guards to ensure that it is utilized properly. The whole process requires two oral request and one written request (How to Access and Use Death with Dignity Laws). Before starting this process one must meet the following requirements: be a resident of California, Colorado, District of Columbia, Oregon, Vermont, or Washington, they must be 18 years old, they must be mentally competent, and they must be diagnosed with a terminal illness that will end their life within 6 months (How to Access and Use Death with Dignity Laws). The first step in the process in the first oral request, the patient must ask a physician for assistance in death (How to Access and Use Death with Dignity Laws). Then the physician must inform the patient about all their options, check to make sure that all the requirements are met, ask that the patients next of kin be notified, get another Hardy !2 physician to confirm the diagnosis and its prognosis (How to Access and Use Death with Dignity Laws). If either physician suspects that the patient is mentally incompetent, then they must request a psychiatric evaluation (How to Access and Use Death with Dignity Laws). Once the first oral request is approved, the patient must wait 15 days to make a second oral request (How to Access and Use Death with Dignity Laws). Any time after the first oral request, the patient must fill out the states written request and have two people, one unrelated, witness its signing (How to Access and Use Death with Dignity Laws). After all of the steps are completed the physician must wait 48 hours to prescribe the medication (How to Access and Use Death with Dignity Laws). Typically, what is prescribed is a barbiturate, in ten minutes the patient will fall asleep, and then within one to three hours the patient will pass (How to Access and Use Death with Dignity Laws). Although a patient is prescribed the medication there is no pressure on them to take it. Even with all the safe guards to ensure that patients are making the right decision, there are still those who object to its legalization. One of the arguments opponents have is that this treatment plan will be misused (13 Pros and Cons of Legalizing Physician Assisted Suicide). The opposing side thinks that family and friends will go against the patients will and use physician assisted death as a treatment plan, and that it will put the health professionals and the families all at risk (13 Pros and Cons of Legalizing Physician Assisted Suicide). To counteract patients undergoing treatment against their will, there is a document called advanced directives that indicates exactly what the patient wants to be done, regarding their treatment when they are unable to make decisions. Another argument against the legalization of physician assisted death is that PAD removes any hope of recovery from the families, patients and doctors (13 Pros and Hardy !3 Cons of Legalizing Physician Assisted Suicide).. The thing about hope in terminal cases though is that it is meant for the doctors and the families, not the patients. When a patient is certain they are going to die in the next six months, it is cruel to give hope. It is cruel to allow them to think that there is a chance for a miracle. It robs them of their time, because they spend all that time worrying instead of living. A third argument is that it gives too much power to the doctors to decide (13 Pros and Cons of Legalizing Physician Assisted Suicide). However, a doctor is required to list all other options for end of life care. This way the patients are fully informed and the doctors do not have all the power, because they cannot make the decision for the patient. Even though there are those out there who disagree with physician assisted death, there are plenty of people who are fighting for its legalization. Physician assisted death allows those who are constantly suffering from a terminal illness to be set free from their pain (13 Pros and Cons of Legalizing Physician Assisted Suicide). For those suffering so severely, it is not life. It is something much worse than death as it is unethical to allow someone to go through this suffering without it being their choice. Physician assisted death allows for a patient to die with some dignity (13 Pros and Cons of Legalizing Physician Assisted Suicide). In a final days basic life tasks become a struggle, things that an average person takes for granted: bladder control, walking, dressing themselves, being able to maintain personal hygiene and so much more. Also, when someone is forced in to end of life care, they along with their families go bankrupt with how expensive the medical treatments are (13 Pros and Cons of Legalizing Physician Assisted Suicide). When a patient is hooked up to three different machines and has to take 6 different pills a day just to stay comfortable this racks up quite a bill, and insurance is not going to pay for all of it. In terminally ill patients it is often common for them to try to commit Hardy !4 suicide by themselves. The legalization of physician assisted death will lessen these tragedies (13 Pros and Cons of Legalizing Physician Assisted Suicide). When someone tries to kill themselves, then that opens that door to a traumatic experience going terribly wrong. Suicide could lead to a world of unnecessary pain, that all could have been avoided. Life with a terminal illness can be hard. Two women, Stephanie Packer and Brittany Maynard, know that better than most people. Brittany Maynard was 29 when she was diagnosed with terminal brain cancer Brittany was in for a long and painful death. She would experience sever cognitive degeneration. Because she was aware of this, Brittany opted to utilize PAD as a treatment plan Stephanie Packer was in a similar situation, except she chose to not use PAD as a treatment plan What these two stories show is that PAD is not for everyone, it is just another end of life care option. Being hooked up to three or four life support machines is not for everyone ether. Does that mean that those should be illegal? Physician assisted death is a choice that patients should have the right to make, just like they have the right to choose to be hooked up to three or four different machines. Everyone who has a say in their health care is involved with the physician assisted death debate. With the legalization of physician assisted death the patients are given one more treatment option, and this is one step closer to helping a patient make the right decision for their personalized treatment plan. In order for our health care system to evolve, the legalization of physician assisted death is critical. To achieve this goal, people need to get involved. In order to raise awareness, constituents need to push for the legalization of physician assisted death through means of protest, voting, and pressuring our representatives. If more laws are proposed in favor Hardy !5 of PAD, then our citizens will have more end of life choices. It is time for change, and that lies on the shoulders of the citizens. Works Sited Hardy !6 How to Access and Use Death with Dignity  Death With Dignity. Death With Dignity, n.d. Web. Stephanie. but against Physician-Assisted CNN, Cable News Network, 26 May 2015 13 Pros and Cons of Legalizing Physician Assisted  VGAVirginia.org. N.p., 05 Jan. 2016. Web. wix website: https://arielhardy7.wixsite.com/website-1