Mitchell 1 Evelyn Mitchell Mr. Kevin Ip ENC 1102.002 15 April, 2017 Knowledge and War It is no question that teachers are considered underpaid by American standards. Anyone who has gone through American primary school has most likely heard teachers make some comment about their pay. But why are teachers so underpaid despite all the work they are expected to do? Teachers are not only expected to give students a high-quality education but are also watching after children during the day. This could be considered two jobs in a sense, both of a nanny and a tutor. With this in mind, the United States Government made any moves to truly raise pay. This may be due to the fact they are in charge of overseeing the payment of things like military expenses, road upkeep, and maintenance of government buildings. With all of these expenses it appears to be tight to raise pay, and the last thing the government wants to do is raise taxes. It is ridiculous though to continue to underpay teachers considering all the jobs they are expected to do and how important they are for the future of America. A change is going to be made; action needs to happen so the United States is on par with other countries in education. The main focus of the United States government used to be on war back during the world wars and even prior to that. During those times, it made perfect sense to have the majority of the budget going to the military since the government was defending the future of the country. Yet now, despite the peace we have been in for a while now, over half of the current budget is exclusively set aside for government expenses. In the fiscal year of 2015, the Mitchell 2 is projected to account for 54 percent of all federal discretionary (National Priorities Project). With the budget during 2015 being approximately 1.11 trillion dollars, this means that $598.5 billion is for military expenses only and during this same fiscal year only $70 billion was allotted for the department of education (National Priorities Project). This difference may have made sense a century ago, but today this continuing mentality has shown when comparing the United States educational system to a system like China. Recently, China has increased their education budget so that it now equals about trillion yuan or 188 billion U.S. (XinGang, Mi). Compared to America, this is more than twice the budget that the United States is currently paying for their education. Continuing to neglect the education system here in the United States has put the country behind in test scores and technology. Where innovation is concerned, China is ahead in technology and science and will continue to be if our future is put behind war. Recently it was shown that China is still working to develop technology that will help the science community in areas like deep sea and space exploration (gov.cn). These of course require education in fields like engineering, physics, and chemistry. crucial that funding begins with the teachers, because if teachers feel financially secure in their jobs then they want to stay let alone do what is necessary to close the gap. Teachers become teachers for the opportunity to make a difference in the United States youth and possibly enact a change, but expecting them to continue on with mediocre pay is ridiculous. Ask anyone on the street if they believe a job is important and you will get the same response every time, teachers are a crucial part to the future of the United States. Yet, they are severely underpaid despite all the responsibilities they are expected to take on. A teacher is expected to care for and teach over 20 students at a time and go above and beyond the norm of Mitchell 3 the curriculum given whenever possible. To put it in perspective, the similar job of a nanny gets paid an rate USD (International Nanny Association) while teachers get paid approximately $25.67 an hour (Writer 2013) but also only work 180 days out of the year and not on weekends. Teachers also have to keep the classroom generally clean for the janitors that work at the schools as well. If a classroom is to dirty, then a janitor may refuse to clean the room leaving the teacher to do it them self. Not only do teachers have this burden, but also the job of a counselor and mentor to the students. This extra task may require a teacher to have to stay after school hours in order to be there for the student. Many people may see this and think that a teacher required to be there for the students as a mentor, yet if they were not they would be seen as a teacher who care about the students. budget has the ability to change every year, yet it changed much within the century. The changing of the budget is a multi-step process that begins with the president and ends with the house and senate. Beginning the process, the president sends on a request to congress asking for a certain change to the current budget (Budget Process). This request needs to be submitted in February so that it can be approved by the beginning of the fiscal year starting October 1 st . After the request is submitted, the House and Senate committees each write and vote on their own resolutions to the proposed budget. Appropriation bills are then made that determine the amount of funding each program gets, and the bills are debated and voted on. Finally, the process goes back to the president who then signs each appropriation bill and then the new budget process is complete. Of course, this process only works if congress and the president can agree on the changes and bills proposed by each side. It seems that due to this predicament, that since neither party can agree the budget change. Thus, putting their petty disagreements above the real issue that the United States is falling behind in education Mitchell 4 which is also putting our future in jeopardy. But, everyday people can do their part to help those government officials vote on these important bills. If people went and contacted their local representative, then they would be able to understand what the people want the budget to be and vote on it accordingly. And finding a representative is as simply as googling it, so really anyone can do it no matter how old, young, rich, or poor they are. Despite the work done by numerous people to help teachers achieve fair pay, not much has been improved except for a few mediocre salaries increases here and there. The union states that collective bargaining and political they can achieve fairness for teachers (American Federation of Teachers). With more people seeing the problem at hand then they too will participate and eventually the government will have to make a change when the voice calling for change gets loud enough. Having over half of the budget go to war is absolutely ridiculous when the real threat to future is under- educated youth by teachers who are struggling to make ends meet. The United States needs to reassess their budget and move money around so every category is accommodated according to actual need and not just what the Government assumes is needed. Many of the problems in the Department of Education area can be fixed with just the appropriate amount of funding so the Department can raise salaries, and properly supply schools with the materials needed for a good quality education. Mitchell 5 Works Cited American Federation of  American Federation of Teachers. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Budget  National Priorities Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. China to Boost Scientific and Technological  China to Boost Scientific and Technological Innovation. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Military Spending in the United  National Priorities Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. 2014 Nanny Salary and Benefits  International Nanny Association. N.p., 25 Nov. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Writer, Leaf Group. How Much Does a First Grade Teacher Get Paid in an  How Much Does a First Grade Teacher Get Paid in an Hour? Chron.com. Chron.com, 11 Aug. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. (XinGang,Mi). Education Spending on the  Education Spending on the Rise-China.org.cn. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017.