Gatdula 1 Jean Royce Gatdula Professor Jubalee Penuliar ENC 1102.011 16 April 2017 Involvement: A Step Forward to Success grades alone prove nothing of your ability to be successful. They give a hint that you can be is a statement by Will Lipovsky, a freelance writer and educator, which shows how people tend to create the idea that good grades turn into good jobs Good Grades Equate Good In the past centuries, the value that people put into education increased mainly because they envision education as a step forward to getting a good job. In return, parents tend to be strict and enforce education and memorizing into the minds of their children. But little do they know that with this, the children they are molding as they grow up will hold on to the idea that getting good grades will get them the job they truly desire. This trail of thought, for me, is flawed. As a person who came from this idea, I slowly realized how wrong it is to envision books as a learning source towards making practical decisions in life. The confidence that you put yourself towards performing a certain duty or job is not only because of educational literacy but also with hard work and experience. realized that academics or GPAs are a mere illusion of getting the job of your dreams because employers hire people for their skills and not by their GPA. This is why this paper will discuss how research or actually getting involved during your undergraduate careers will amplify your vision on how you see yourself in the future. Getting involved such as getting internships, volunteer work, or even research can determine whether you are fit for what your current major is. Gatdula 2 One of the leading issues of people of this generation is that they rely too much on education. Seeing a lot of people suffer from stress and depression just because they got a B in one of their tests is a good indicator of how the youth has been absorbed by the thought of not succeeding in life because they had a single bad grade. Students who learned to value grades too much might be from schools that rely too much on memorizing every detail the book has to offer. This makes the students rely too much on book knowledge rather than practical knowledge. In return, the students realize that everybody has their pitfalls and successes and a single bad grade would possibly not impact the future. But the real indicator of whether or not you will land a good job in the future lies whether you attained the right skills and attitude for the job that you wanted. This can be gauged through engaging in community work, volunteer research works, conducting researches with professors, or applying for internships in companies that what you consider in line with your major. What I consider one of the leading advocates of undergraduate research is the Association of American Universities (AAU). The AAU is one of the leading advocates in valuing research for undergraduate or graduates. They encourage student to pursue degrees in research intensive universities because they believe that research, equipped with sufficient academic rigor, can transform them into empowering and successful leaders of the society. They see the idea of education and research being essential because it is a driving force to success and innovation (A Better Nourished Tomorrow). Their mission its members to collectively help shape policy for higher education, science and innovation; promote best practices in undergraduate and graduate education; and strengthen the contributions of research universities to (A Better Nourished Tomorrow). This means that mission is to improve not Gatdula 3 only undergraduate research but also the academic undergraduate and graduate education. However, in the case of non-scientific majors, students can focus on internships and volunteer work to be able to gauge the important experience a person needs to get for their future careers, Working in a workplace will able to let a person have the insights of what is it like in working in the field you have always dreamt of. In addition to this, their exposure will help them realize that working requires you to adapt to certain conditions and the person must be able to make the big decisions that would either make or break their working status. These are some important aspects a student has to understand in the outside world. It is not as picture perfect as they have pictured in their mind but it is just the face of reality that they need to be aware of. The speculations of the future employees might be too perfect that they will forget that working in the field of their interest will involve hardships and making big decisions for you and for can be for the company too. This will ultimately lead them to disappointment after the excitement has died out and all a repetitive process. The thought of entering into internships, work volunteering, and undergraduate research can be daunting at first but it is key to every future employee of any company. In the instance of hiring, there will be several employees searching for the same job as you have always aspired, but the ultimate question is, what makes you different from the other employees. What if all the persons applying have the same qualifications and GPA as you have? This becomes a problem because you, as a prospective employee, have no competitive edge over people because you lack skill and experience. This is one of the main reasons why you should even bother engaging with internships, volunteer works, and undergraduate research. Engaging in different forms of experience and skill gives you a competitive edge over other employees. Gatdula 4 Questions like it going to take me awhile to graduate if I conduct a research for about half a year during my undergraduate is one of the primary mistakes of students nowadays. The mistake students make is they are so focused on finishing university fast that they forget to expose themselves into actual workplaces that they are planning to work on in the future. Students lose sight of what is truly important in workplace and that is skill. A mere number will not bring anyone to places unless you do something about the knowledge you have attained in these classes towards practical use. Because of this, most people will end up hating their jobs because they think of it that way since they have no exposure to the actual work experience In fact according to, Corby Horvis, a Coordinator of the REU (Research Experience for Undergraduates) Program, stated that idea [of research is that students should establish a personal connection to the work and a feeling of (The Importance of Undergraduate Research). He also mentions that top tier competitive workplaces will not even look at you if you have enough experience to satisfy what they need in their company (The Importance of Undergraduate Research). It is important to understand that in order to go big, a person must start from a smaller foundation. With multiple small foundations of skills and experience, one can easily meet the demands of future employers and companies. The only thing to do something about the desire to fulfill your dreams is actually chase it. One can do this by making an action now today by joining conversations, being involved through internships, volunteer works, and REUs (Research Experience for Undergraduates). This will not only help people gain experience and skill for their future careers but it will also mold them as a mature and responsible person. Anna Alanko, a career services advisor at Rasmussen College in Wausau, Wisconsin, states that undergraduate research is beneficial because you develop a sense of workforce expectation, attain the ability to network with professionals in your field, and learn Gatdula 5 specific industry cultures and etiquettes (Rasmussen College). Not being a stranger to the workplace you are trying to pursue will make you as a future employee comfortable with what you are dealing with in the long run. Not only will it make you attain the professional skill and experience, it will also give you an insight of whether you should become who you want to become so that you can have a fulfilled and happy life. In conclusion, getting involved definitely equips the right insight and inside look of what you want to become as a person. It is discussed that through volunteer work, internships, and REUs or Research Experience for Undergraduates will help you gain the right lens of what you want to become. It will gauge and shape your personal and professional experience as a student by developing your sense of workforce expectation, applying your classroom coursework to the position, and most important being able to communicate with know professionals in your field. These kinds of experiences will help you make or break current interests, but it is to help students realize their potentials and be able to see what they can become that they will enjoy. Gatdula 6 Works Cited Page AAU Universities: Research to Secure Our Energy  Association of American Universities. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. A Better-Nourished  Association of American Universities. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Alanko, Anna. Rasmussen  Rasmussen College - Regionally Accredited College Online and on Campus. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Do Good Grades Equate to Good  Critical Financial. N.p., 21 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Webb, Sarah et al. The Importance of Undergraduate  Science AAAS. N.p., 12 Jan. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.