Gill 1 Cover Letter My presentation ties into my argument because both tell how free education is bad and gives a list of the consequences of what would happen if college were free. The process of making my presentation was simple. I first make a list of what I should write about, and then I made my PowerPoint. From making my PowerPoint, I then took my thoughts of when I was making the presentation and used those to make my essay. Gill 2 Jordan Gill Murray ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Is Free Education A Bad Thing? Recently, there has been debate about whether college should be free or not through President Obama suggestion of making years of free and universal in America as high school is (Reim) and through presidential candidate Bernie proposal of free college tuition. While some people agree with these proposals, this idea is in fact very harmful to our education and economy. If college education was free, then everyone would get a college education (which is actually a bad thing), taxes will rise for everyone, not everyone who attends free college will be seeking a degree, and there will be overcrowding. Therefore, college should not be free and should continue to stay how it is now. Why is everyone getting an education a bad thing? Well, some people were simply not born to be in school. College is rigorous and takes dedication and focus. Some people do not have that drive, or are meant to work the lower class jobs that require no education. Rachel Beckstead, publisher of College Atlas states, of Americans will study at a 4-year college, but less than 2/3 will and of these dropouts from college and universities droup out after their first (Beckstead). We over look people in those jobs, such as restaurant workers, gas station workers, and other such jobs that impact our lives everyday. Plus, when everyone has a degree, a college degree will be worthless. According to Bob Luebke, a writer for Civitas Institute, something is valuable, we be willing to pay for The workforce would also become more competitive, which in turn would create more Gill 3 unemployment because everyone is seeking the same higher paid jobs. According to Lisa Kahn, a graduate of the Yale School of Management, those who in worse national economies are in lower-level (Kahn). This means that getting a college degree was worthless and time wasting because the college degree only gets a graduate to a lower paying job instead of a higher salary. Free education will also lower the competition and rigor of the classes in order for more people to pass classes and graduate. Mary Reim, a policy analysis, stated, taxpayer- subsidized community college would more resemble two extra years of high school than a rigorous higher education In other words, college will basically be an extension of high school. If education was free, it would raise taxes for everyone. Think about it, the money to pay teachers and other staff members would have to come from somewhere. There would also be the fee of the building materials and the manual labor to build those building. There is nothing that is truly free. Also, some people simply cannot afford to pay higher taxes. According to Martin Bozeman, a graduate from Oklahoma State University, the public simply cannot afford it. Taxes will only get worse with yet another entitlement burdening the American (Bozeman). Bozeman also states, your lifetime, you will not only have paid for your education, but for many as (Bozeman). This expresses how everyone would be paying for college, even if some people decide not to use it, as well as other people to go to college. Free education does not mean a free degree. This means that everyone who attends does not have the same end goal in mind. Some people are there to learn and get a higher education, others are there simply to party and have fun, and others are there because either a parent or Gill 4 guardian are making them go. The last two groups are in college wasting a couple years of their life when they could be in the workforce in a blue-collar job already making a living. College is not suited for everyone. Luebke states that, free education attract more students that are ill- suited for the college environment who will end up dropping out (Luebke). People who are there to learn and receive a higher education will be placed in the same general classes as those who do not want to be there and become distracted by the people who could not care less about college. More people would attend the free college, which in turn leads to overcrowding. If a college becomes overcrowded, then more building will have to be built. This causes salaries to be paid to more builders, staff, and teachers, which causes even higher taxes for everyone. It will be a never-ending cycle. The more people on campus also means that there are less places to find a quiet spot, or even a spot at all, to study. Students who come from small school are already overwhelmed by the amount of people in large universities. Imagine that multiplied by 4. Vince Norton, an author at Norton Norris, creates an example of this by stating, some students, being part of an entering freshman class of 8,000 students may be overwhelming, and sitting in a lecture hall with 200 may not be their preferred way of (Norton). In order to prevent these consequences from happening, I implore and urge everyone to vote against any future bills that propose free education or even reduced education costs to keep education prices the way they are. There are some pros that come out of this, however. If college was free, then more people will become educated. But one must also realize that if everyone is educated, then everyone would have the same knowledge and compete for the same jobs. Free education also means that there would be no student debt, which means students could focus more on schoolwork than Gill 5 paying off loans. However, if everyone is focused on school, who would be the restaurant workers or other lower income jobs most students work while they are in school? Also, work causes someone to build character and become a harder and more determined worker in the long run. All in all, free education is not a good thing. It has some good aspects, but those have consequences and have the potential to destroy the economy. Education should remain the way it is: competitive, rigorous, and a challenge. Gill 6 Works Cited Beckstead, Rachel. Statistics of College  Online Colleges and Degrees College Atlas. College Atlas, 13 Mar. 2017. Web. 23 Apr. 2017. Bozeman, Martin Alexander. Top 3 Reasons Why Free College Is A Bad  Odyssey. Odyssey, 07 Mar. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Kahn, Lisa B. The long-term labor market consequences of graduating from college in a bad  Labour Economics 17.2 (2010): 303-316. Luebke, Bob. Why Free College Tuition Is a Bad  Civitas Institute. N.p., 04 Feb. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Norton, Vince. Why Free College Is a Bad  Norton Norris. N.p., 11 Jan. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Reim, Mary Clare.  Community College Is a Bad Deal for Taxpayers and  The Heritage Foundation. The Heritage Foundation, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.