Canavan 1 Taylor Canavan TJ Murray ENC 1002 30 April, 2017 Why College Students Should Work for Winshape My presentation was a basic overview of the camp Winshape. I gave a lot of main points, that are throughout my paper, as examples/reasons why to work for Winshape. I absolutely love this camp and was excited to share it with everyone. The pictures I showed were able to tell more than I was able to say. Canavan 2 Taylor Canavan TJ Murray ENC 1102 16 April, 2017 Why College Students Should Work for Winshape How can you expect college students to act like adults yet still enjoy the freedom of being young? This request entails having a job, living on their own, and maintaining a good grade point average. Just to maintain a good GPA requires hours of studying and review (GarfieldGates). If you a job on top of that, that job demands at least 20 hours a week! These two demands cause a student to feel overwhelmed and they have called a mental breakdown (which is normal, but no one likes them). However, there is a way around working during the semester and remaining stress free (well kind of). Winshape is a traveling vacation bible school run by college students sponsored by Chick Fil A. This camp teaches leadership and management skills, is OVER THE SUMMER, and all expenses are paid while you still get paid! So why a student want to work this job? Having a part time job allows students to learn leadership and management skills (regions). Winshape puts these students in charge of many little kids and they are on a schedule every day during Canavan 3 camp from 8-5. There are several activities going on that allows the college kids to learn leadership and management skills. For instance, each staffer teaches a team time which is where the campers learn whatever lesson it is for the day and they teach a skill. Skills can range from arts n crafts and wacky science to soccer, lacrosse or secret ops. But the campers go to three different skills, worship, team times and power sure so the staffers really have to manage their time wisely and be on time. Working during the school year is tough because you have to manage your time wisely. Students have to figure out their work schedule around their class schedule but still have to find time for homework. Working over the summer allows for so many things. First, it allows college students not to worry during the semester about balancing the two. Winshape wants their staffers to focus on their education because their education is what is going to get them a real job in the adult world. Canavan 4 Chick Fil A and Winshape understand that college students are poor and barely have enough money to eat. What they do is cover all your expenses and they still pay you! Your team is traveling every week for 9-10 weeks. You are in a different hotel each week, different church, always driving. The hotels are covered, your team travels in a van which is covered and the host church feeds you (Lucier)! They pay staffers weekly, so on the weekends when you have a break between traveling you can shop, go see movies or go out to eat out (but all on you). So sign up now! Become a staffer, avoid the extra stress during the school year. Work during the summer, get paid to have fun and be super energetic all summer because that will go away as soon as you graduate. http://workatwinshape.org/ Winshape offers college students a full-time job over the summer. From being a rec director to being on leadership or even just being a team time leader, you have the opportunity to make money and impact a life. No more working during the school year! This allows you to learn how to budget and save what you earn over the summer. This is literally the ideal job for college students. Canavan 5 Work Cited Regions  RegionsBank. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Lucier, Kelli. Consider Pros and Cons of Working in  U.S News. N.p., 13 Sept. 2013. Web. GarfieldGates. Ten Common Problems Students Face in  Owlcation. Owlcation, 02 Dec. 2015. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.