Elsingergy 1 Cover Letter - My presentation was a video that is very related to my topic in that both call to help save the Syrian children, who are affected by the atrocities of the Syrian conflict. In my video, I mentioned that while opposing sides are trying to end the conflict by force, the children are suffering in between. Thus, the war must end peacefully to help save the children and their dream. Finally, the video ends with a call to end the war, and save the children, which is the thesis of my paper. - I reread my paper, and tried to correct any grammatical and spelling mistakes. - I wrote my thesis as explicit as possible near the end of the introductory paragraph before the example of Alan Kurdi. - I did not address a particular audience. Hence, my paper focuses on the public. Elsingergy 2 Abdulrahman Elsingergy Dr. Theodore J Murray ENC1102.906 28 April 2017 Syrian Conflict and Children What happens when you switch on the news nowadays? Do you always listen to some good reports about optimism and other topics? Well, in reality, this is not how the world is going. On other sides of the world, people are suffering and crying without us knowing about them. In war-torn countries, civilians including children suffer, and the world does not give much attention. An example of children suffering with the indifference is the Syrian children. Since the conflict started in March 2011, their lives have been drastically distressed, ripped, tormented and scarred. While each side of the conflict is concerned about achieving its goals, another side is being affected behind the curtains, and the world does not give enough attention. People should try to be aware of how the Syrian children suffer, regardless of their religion and political sides, and help them through the available means. Back in September 2015, the picture of Syrian child, Alan lifeless body, washed on to a Turkish beach, went viral on the internet, and broke our hearts. For a moment, people began to be aware about what is 1Choices for syrian children (Choices) Elsingergy 3 happening to Syrian children, and care about them (Costello). However, almost two years have passed since that photo and unfortunately, the majority forgot about it. A good question one might ask is, how do the Syrian children actually suffer, and what happens to them? In order to be able to sympathize better with Syrian children, one might want to know the problems that they face. According to an article published by the British newspaper, the Telegraph, Syrian children are suffering after witnessing six years of war and violence (Sanchez). The article mentions that a study conducted by a charitable organization called Save the Children, proved that the children are in the most state of (Sanchez). The parents said that their children showed signs of aggressive, distressed and violent behaviors including, speech disorders, bedwetting, chest pains, etc. The charitable mental health advisor mentioned, risk condemning a generation of children to a lifetime of mental and physical health (Sanchez). While some doctors were able to diagnose the condition, others could not find a suitable term to describe their sufferings and what they were forced to witness. Dr. M.K Hamza, a neuropsychologist with the Syrian-American Medical Society (SAMS), came up with a new term to describe their condition as devastation (Morley). He mentioned that in a family of 5, 6 or 10 members, only one 2Children in the district of al-Bab, in Aleppo, 6 March (Sanchez). Elsingergy 4 survives, and the child has to live the rest of his/her life without a caring parent (Morley). This shows that children are forced to witness the atrocities, and try to adapt to living with them. Is not that enough to scar a future, past and present? After seeing two examples of the difficulties Syrian children have to live with, one might ask, how can I help? What can I give? Although some may suppose that help can only be provided financially, this assumption is completely erroneous. Help can come in various shapes, depending on the financial condition, geographical location, education, job, etc. For example, a student might not have the financial capability to donate to charitable organizations. However, he/she might have the capability to visit a refugee-helping organization in his/her city, and help the children refugees by teaching them English. As a matter of fact, help can sometimes be just a form of psychological support, given by spending time with children, listening to their innocent stories, offering them a friend they never had a chance to know and being there when their lives get depressing. Another form of help may be to raise awareness amongst the circle of acquaintances by providing them with background on how the children are suffering. Such helpful contributions can be achieved through organizations like Save the Children (http://www.savethechildren.org/). Syrian children deserve to live, dream, smile and live their lives as children. Hence, why not help them do so? Why not help provide them with their basic human rights like, food, education, health care, shelter, love, etc.? In fact, there is much everyone can do, and it is never too late. If you are willing to return back the Syrian smile, donate at www.childrenofsyria.info. They provide winter clothes, health care, psychological support, Elsingergy 5 shelter and sanitation facilities. Together, we can help save a doomed generation of lovely and hopeful children. In conclusion, children have nothing to do with politics, religion, and these adult-world complications. As a matter of fact, all they understand about is family, friends, toys, etc. Thus, they deserve the right to live their lives normally. The picture on the right was taken by the United Nations International Emergency Fund (UNICEF), when they asked a bunch of Syrian children about their dreams. She innocently said, want to live in a big house that has room for all my family and (Manocchi). Hence, people should try as much as possible to help them achieve their simple dreams and wishes, which war and conflict have deprived them from. 3 (Unicef) Elsingergy 6 Works cited Costello, Tim. Syrian children suffer as we drag our  Age [Melbourne, 2 Sept. 2016, p. 19. Sanchez, Raf. children are suffering from after six years of war, report  The Telegraph. Telegraph Media Group, 07 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Morley, Nicole. Doctor coins term for Syrian pain because far worse than  Metro. 28 Feb. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Choices. NY times. Web. 18 November 2016. Mannocchi, Francesca. Syrian  UNICEF. 23 Dec. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.