Barnhill 1 Renee Barnhill Professor Erika Staiger ENC 1102.005 30 April 2017 Breed-Specific Legislation In recent years, there have been many dog attack cases covered through news and social media. Though when these attacks are recorded there can be bias in the media depending on the breeds that were involved in these attacks. If someone was ever to go through all the recorded canine attacks they will see a pattern that the attacks involving larger breeds such as the Bullmastiff, German Shepherd, and American Staffordshire Terrier, appear much more frequently than other smaller breeds like chihuahuas and Jack Russel Terriers. These misconceptions lead state and city officials to turn to Breed-Specific Legislation (BSL) to regulation these attacks. BSL are regulations that move towards breed discrimination against larger breeds to decrease the number of attacks. These regulations caused many places to label large breeds like the ones mentioned above as and (Weiss). The most common breeds that get forced under these labels are the pit bull breeds, these include the American Staffordshire Terrier, the English Bulldog, and the Bullmastiff. BSL allow apartment complexes and even whole cities to ban the ownership of breeds that fall under the pit bull type. Here in Tampa many of the apartments have banned the ownership of most of which reside around the University of South Tampa campus. This BSL makes it difficult for USF students that already have these breeds as pets to find a home for both themselves and their furry companions. To put an end to the discriminatory regulations and make it easier for students who are also pet parents to find a home for them and their pet a USF student can join an anti- BSL organization that are in Florida or start a petition here on campus to get apartment complexes around campus to drop their BSL regulations for better, less bias ones. Barnhill 2 Even with everything that is being done to get rid of these legislations many people are still unaware that these regulations exist and how bias they are towards large breeds. To understand how these regulations negatively impact and misguide the public one must understand the misconception with canines that most of the public call a pit bull. The label is not an actual breed but instead a term used to describe a dog with certain characteristics like wide heads and lock jaw. This makes identifying a breed solely on appearance is close to impossible. In many cases, even with a trained eye identifying dog breeds cannot always efficiently determine the breed of a canine solely on looks. This is more so when it comes to mutts (dogs made up of more than one breed). This problem creates a lot of issues when enforcing breed-specific legislation and often leads to innocent dogs being euthanized because of their appearance instead of their behavior. This brings up another issue, that BSL is basing a aggression on its appearance alone without considering the behavior. In Heather article, Canine Profiling: Does Breed-Specific Legislation Take a Bite out of Canine Crime, her study shows that aggressive behavior towards people is more commonly seen found in small and medium size breeds. However, many bite cases caused by these smaller breeds go unrecorded due to their size and bite force (Pratt, 858). Many people also believe that bigger breeds tend to have genetically altered DNA that differs from other breeds that causes them to naturally behave more aggressively. This is proven false in a study shown in Mehrkam and article, Behavioral Differences Among Breeds of Domestic Dogs: Current Status of the Science. In this article, it is said that aggression is one of the more difficult behaviors to study by breeds due to the under or over representation of various breeds in these studies. Being aware of all these factors is crucial Barnhill 3 when looking at BSL helps one understand how these regulations negatively impact the community. Breed-Specific Legislation needs to change to better protect the public from canine that are dangerous instead of discriminating against breeds because of their appearance. need to act now before BSL gets any worse in Tampa. For example, Meghan Hays talks about this town in the 30-year ban on pit bull breeds. This article refers to an organization known as the Miami Coalition Against Breed Specific Legislation. This organization is supported by anti-BSL residents of this area and came about after commissioner, Bruno Barreiro began a debate to lift the ban off these terriers (Hays, 59). Though the legislation did not get removed his debate lead to the founding of this revolutionary organization in that area. People can join this organization by going to their webpage and make a donation or one can also volunteer for any of their anti-BSL events. Joining an organization may not be the best option for many USF students since many students are pack with school work or just have the funds to donate. A big way USF students can keep these bias regulations from impacting the community more than what it already has. These students can start a petition to get apartment complexes around campus to get rid of their BSL regulations that prevent the ownership of many breeds that are discriminated against. This petition can push the apartment complexes to create less bias regulations to better protect their residents from dangerous, aggressive dogs. This will better the community and allow for students that are pet parents to have an easier time finding a place for them and their furry companion to call home. Breed-Specific Legislation are regulations put in place to protect the public from dangerous dogs. However, instead of doing that these regulations were used to discriminate Barnhill 4 against larger canine breeds and allowed places to go as far as ban certain breeds, many being placed under the category pit bulls. Places like Miami have organizations that fight against this legislation. Here in Tampa many apartment complexes around the USF area have banned the ownership of these large breeds that get commonly mislabeled as aggressive and dangerous to the public. To put these regulation to an end USF students can sign a petition to get the apartment complexes to come up with regulations that are behavioral based to replace these breed bias regulations that are currently in place. Barnhill 5 Work Cited Gahr, Evan. Fido Goes to  American Spectator, vol. 33, no. 10, Dec2000/Jan2001, p. 56. EBSCOhost, Web. 11 April 2017. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=aph&AN=3793449&site=eds-live. Hays, Meghan. Pit Bull Lives Matter: Ineffectiveness Breeds Unconstitutionality in Miami- Breed-Specific Legislation Null  St. Thomas Law Review, no. 1, 2016, p. 59. EBSCOhost, Web. 11 April 2017. Mehrkam, Lindsay R., and Clive D. Wynne. Behavioral differences among breeds of domestic dogs: Status of the  Applied Animal Behaviour Sciences, vol. 155, June 2014, pp. 12-27. Accessed 15 April 2017. Pratt, Heather K. Profiling: Does Breed-Specific Legislation Take a Bite out of Canine Penn State Law Review 108. (2004): 855. LexisNexis Academic Law Reviews. Web. 14 April 2017. Weiss, Linda S. Breed-Specific Legislation in the United  Breed-Specific Legislation in the United States. Animal Legal & Historical Center. Michigan State University College of Law, 2001. Web. 11 April 2017.