Huss 1 Madison Huss TJ Murray ENC 1102 23 April 2017 Nanotechnology Takeover My presentation was in the form of an investigation. This ties into my paper because my paper is about nanotechnology as a whole and nanobots are the main problem. The presentation was easy to make as I found scientists who have invented specific things that go into the making on a nanobot. They all lead to the main nanobot scientist who is at the top of the others. An investigation must be done to find out who has released something into the public. This investigation was put on by me and was about how nanobots have been released to the country. Three men are the culprit of the invention of these bots leading to a final scientist who has accidentally released them. I choose to present this in a PowerPoint to slowly reveal each scientist and how they lead to the final mastermind. The biggest obstacle for me was the decision to make the presentation in the form of a powerpoint rather than a poster board or just as a story. Huss 2 New technology is being thought of and made every second of every day. Technologies you would never begin to think of or hear about are so important and relevant to a life. The newest feature is a particle capable of cleaning your entire house in a very timely manner. This particle magically glides around and cleans any dust, dirt, or foreign particle floating around in your home. (mrclean.com) Nanotechnology is the technology that deals with the smallest dimensions, manipulating both atoms and molecules. The major concepts nanotechnology has to offer are in electronics, energy, health and medicine, manufacturing, materials, and tools and training. This leads to a powerful future for new inventions that will control, manipulate, and personalize the daily life of many. As most of you have no idea what these even are or are capable of, this is already an alarming topic. Would you believe me if I told you these nanoparticles are already out in the world? The government, for the past three years, has released nanoparticles into the United States in order to improve, keep tabs on, and protect humans and we need to take a stand and march for what is going on around us. Did you know nanoparticles being released to improve all aspects of human life? Those who utilize these to their fullest potential are highly satisfied and enjoy their assistance daily. They are used in kitchens, laundry, cosmetics, clothing, and garages. The very dishes you eat off of are cleaned with nanoparticles. Detergents used in laundry as well as the clothing put into the machines contain nanoparticles. Sunscreens as well as various facial products are made with nanoparticles. Various tools and even paints that you may store in your garage carry nanoparticles. These particles are seen as a very useful discovery which can be used in many ways to help us accomplish a multitude of different things but only if you are aware of their potential. Nanobots are being used with citizens in order to watch their every move made. These bots are unlike what you imagine. They are invisible to the human eye and are feared since it is unknown as to where or when they are present. The government has yet to release anything on what these bots Huss 3 currently are doing but there is an idea as to what they can do. nanobots will be able to sense and adapt to environmental stimuli such as heat, light, sounds, surface textures, and chemicals; perform complex calculations; move, communicate, and work together; conduct molecular assembly; and, to some extent, repair or even replicate (nanobot.info) With any given information of nanobots, we can only assume the type of spying that is going on to keep track of what we humans are up to. Nanomedicine is the final aid that the government has released which actually does more help than harm. Most patients are clueless as to how they are being treated, the only worry they have is if their treatment is working or not. If it were not for nanomedicines, many diseases would not be cured and many people would no longer be with us. Cell imaging, treating cancer, diagnosis, drug delivery, and tissue repair are just some of the various things nanomedicine will be capable of. The new methods of nanomedicine are extremely valuable and are the difference between life and death in many cases. The morals of many patients are in question when it comes to nanomedicine because it is convinced that this will allow for everyone to live forever. The government is continuing and improving this phenomenon and the future is unpredictable when it comes to all things nano. National Security head was caught not telling the truth to Congress about the surveillance of millions of U.S. It is frightening how well officials are able to sugarcoat all the new things coming our way. It is vital that we start informing ourselves in order to take a stand on what is right and what the future holds for us. Nanotechnology already has many followers, and with more, only better things are to come in order to truly improve our way of living. Information is out there and if you take the time to learn, anything is possible. A new, annual march is being held in downtown Tampa, in order to gain followers and inform many people on what is creeping up on us. Huss 4 The release of these nanoparticles into the country is unknown to many. Everyone is capable of knowing and should know when their lives are at stake to be improved, spied on, or saved with new technologies. is helping to considerably improve, even revolutionize, many technology and industry (nano.gov) The wonders of this technology continue to bring up new ideas and this is only the beginning to what is to come. With the help of government released information, many people can inform themselves of nanoparticles in order to help pave our future. Take a stance on what you think is right. Huss 5 Works Cited Magic  Mr N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Apr. 2017. Nanotechnology  Nano. N.p., n.d. Web. 8 Sept. 2016. SciDev.Net. for Health: Facts and SciDev.Net. N.p., n.d. Web. 8 Sept. 2016. Quigley, Bill. 13 things the government is trying to hide from  Salon. N.p., 22 Aug. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Www.Nanobot.info Nanobot Website and Webhosting  Www.Nanobot.info. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Nov. 2016.