Andres Corredor Project 3 Intermediate Draft ENC 1102 April 14, 2017 Drink Better Beer, Have a Better Time Drinking alcohol is one of the most shared activities among people all over the world, with beer being the most consumed and the all-time favorite drink. Beer itself is one of the earliest refreshments drank by humans in recorded history, dating back to ancient Egypt. But as with most good and popular things, beer has become largely corporate and industrialized both in its brewing process and its distribution, creating a bit of saturation in its quality in the overall market. Big beer companies like Anheuser-Busch and even Mexico-based Corona have very expansive distribution (88% total beer market share as per the Brewers Association), particularly in the U.S., making it widely available in almost every alcohol retailer, creating a large consumer base. Meanwhile, the more artisanal, or craft, beer side of the market is a much smaller but quickly emerging market and is showing a more flavorful side of beer to drinkers all over. However, the largeness of the industrialized beers and its popularity continues to restrict shelf and draft space for craft better product. I would propose that all lovers of beer take some type of initiative to learn about and visit their local breweries and help promote and spread the word of these local businesses producing superior quality beers. Many Americans, millennials in particular, are beginning to seek better quality and local foods and even hygiene and beauty products so of course craft beer was also set to catch a trendy phase. With close to 5000 small breweries currently open in the United States, it is estimated that the average American lives within 10 miles of a local brewery in their town and this is commonplace in every region from east to west and north to south of the country. This is pretty important for the drinking age public because social drinking locations are changing and diversifying themselves while also maintaining a local heritage feel regardless of the town or state. Many of your local breweries have begun catching more attention and more business, allowing them to expand their operations and distribute to local convenience stores and restaurants/bars giving them a larger public reaching. This emerging trend is beginning to catch on not just for the beer drinker but for the small homebrewer aspiring to open his own brewery and this is worth the public taking notice of. Brewers are also beginning to adopt new aging processes as described by Fortune magazine: [In brewers dramatically expanded their barrel aging programs, moving beyond just bourbon barrels and seeing how beers fared in the former housings of tequila, cognac and other (Morris) which have become very popular among trend-seeking drinkers. going to continue to see an increase in craft beer market shares but it seems that only the well- educated beer community is aware of these changes while the general public is still unaware of the boom. So why, even as the number of breweries in the country have reached pre-prohibition numbers in the last couple years, is it so important for more people to catch on and help spread the movement even more? Because, as aforementioned, there are still many individuals not aware of this shift in more artisanal drinking which encompasses both better quality and community involvement and enrichment. As more of us are starting to grocery shop more consciously at places like Whole Foods and Trader we can begin doing the same with better-crafted beers which just so happen to also be sold at retailers like these. Social media marketing, as with many products, is one of the most effective and highly noticed forms of advertising now a days and small breweries are capitalizing on this. the beer landscape, competition and a new digital ecosystem is spurning innovative (Wegert). Hash tags and tagged photos of customers posting pictures and shoutouts to these breweries are also helping spread the word and tickling the local curiosity. A local business is as strong and prosperous as the community it is serving is promoting and supporting it and it is essential to these small breweries to establish and maintain a strong community backing. This push for spreading more knowledge about local brewers and their craft is showing no signs of slowing down and should see exponential growth per year if more of us continue to spread the word and show the uninformed public a better side to drinking. Americans are beginning to make a rapid shift toward overall better quality products and the consumer is becoming better educated about what they purchasing and where to find what they are seeking. The craft beer movement, although still slightly taboo as it is still alcoholic consumption and limited to only overage individuals, is at the forefront of a better quality product being consumed by these new shoppers and community participation is vital for it to thrive. The Brewers Association and local brewers guilds across the country are groups designed to help push craft beer in a larger market for all to purchase and enjoy as easily as classic lagers like Bud Light, Corona and Miller Lite without necessarily going after these profits. The craft beer community is tightly knit and competition is more of a friendly aspect of the business as these small brewers support one another and even collaborate to make certain limited edition brews. The public has a duty to these local businesses to help grow their operations and will continue to see benefits from helping these brewers, making it a very exciting movement to be a part of. Works Cited Weggert, T. 3 Beer Brands Brewing Great Social Media  Contently. N.p., 06 Jun. 2016. Web. < https://contently.com/strategist/2016/06/06/3-beer-brands-brewing-great- social-media-campaigns/>. National Beer Sales &  Brewers Association. N.p., May & june 2016. Web. <https://www.brewersassociation.org/statistics/national-beer-sales-production-data/>. Morris, C. Craft Beer Trends to Look Out For in  Fortune. Time Inc., 09 Jan. 2016. Web. <http://fortune.com/2016/01/09/craft-beer-trends-2016/>.