Nguyen 1 Nhi Ha Phuong Nguyen Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 March 12, 2017 Animal Testing: An Essential Procedure With the variety of procedures used in research, there is no doubt that some researchers prefer one technique than the others. In fact, Foundation for Biomedical Research (FBR) believes that animal testing is essential to study and find treatments for diseases such as cancer or Moreover, this organization wants to change the perspectives of people about animal testing through articles, pictures, and campaigns. While the image on the left shows that animal testing is still the most promising and essential procedure compared to the current technology, the image on the right represents the proud achievements researchers got from animal testing technique. Both images display that animal testing is essential for research with the use of ethos, pathos, and logos; therefore, these pictures supplement mission. The primary goal of FBR is to promote animal testing, because FBR believes this promising procedure potentially gives positive results. This organization argues that animal research can help study and find treatment to serious diseases, resulting in saving the lives of many people. In addition, with the use of logos in the left picture, FBR suggests that animal testing is the most promising procedure when conducting research. According to FBR, testing is essential for understanding the safety and proper dosages of new medicines and (Biomedical Research). Without the use of animals, it may be challenging for scientists to know how certain diseases and medicines affect humans. Moreover, animal testing Nguyen 2 has been proved to bring many proud achievements to the society. According to FBR, used to combat cancer, HIV/AIDS, hepatitis, and malaria would not have been possible without research with (Animal Testing and Research Achievements). This statement proves that animal testing is essential due to its beneficial outcomes. Besides articles, this organization also uses rhetorical appeals, as well as images, to support its mission. Both images represent the importance of animal testing in research through utilizing ethos, pathos, and logos. Therefore, visuals and rhetorical appeals play significant roles in supplementing the goal of FBR. Both images rely on ethos to persuade audiences to support animal testing. The image on the left shows that animal testing is still the most promising procedure, making it essential for research. In addition, by having logo at the bottom, this image shows credibility; therefore, it successfully brings attention to audiences who have already heard about the organization. Once trust is established, audiences feel motivated to understand the message of the image. Although some people may not be familiar with FBR, the use of their logo grants the freedom for people to investigate the organization. Besides, the image on the right displays the achievements that animal testing has brought to society. In this image, the doctor with her Nguyen 3 professional attire creates credibility to the audiences. Ultimately, FBR can persuade audiences to support animal testing by providing a great sense of trust. While the image on the left leaves the audience with a sense of astonishment, the image on the right provides the audience with a sense of happiness. In addition to astonishment, the left title Fact vs.  triggers curiosity in the audience. This curiosity urges people to learn about their own misconceptions of animal testing. Furthermore, the magnifying glass on top of the word symbolizes that animal testing has commonly been underestimated. This element of design suggests that audiences should look closer into animal testing and gain a fairer perspective on this topic. In addition, the word in red brings the audience the sense of horror, because this color tends to signify a sense of danger and urgency. Specifically, this provocative color creates an urgent need for audiences to discover the importance of animal testing when performing research. In the right image, because the lady is smiling at the dog, a sense of happiness is brought to the audience, indicating that animal testing is friendly. The sense of friendliness from this picture suggests that animal testing contributes positive effects on scientific research, resulting in the support for this promising procedure. Equally important, both images establish logos by supplementing the reasons why animal testing is essential for research. The primary goal of the picture on the left is to persuade the audiences to change their perception on this procedure. The message essential need for animals in biomedical shows that animal research is essential, because it helps study the progress of many diseases and find treatment for them. According to Garattini and Giuliano in the article testing is still the best way to find new treatments for studies have led to the production of drugs that have affected the epidemiology of human pathology, contributing to prolonging (3). With the help of animals in research, scientists Nguyen 4 successfully found treatments to a wide array of diseases. In addition, by placing the magnifying glass on top of the word and creating the word in red color, FBR wants to emphasize the urgent need for audiences to change their misconception about animal testing and understand why this procedure is necessary for research. Besides, the picture on the right claims that animal testing provides proud achievements, so people should support this technique. People are smiling at the dog in this picture, because dogs having cancers can help kids with osteosarcoma. According to research conducted by FBR, bone cancer known as osteosarcoma is so similar between dogs and people that intensive research in canine osteosarcoma has led to several breakthroughs in treating osteosarcoma in (How Best Friend is Helping Cancer Treatment). Because of all the benefits animals bring to research, animal testing remains the most promising and essential procedure. Therefore, people should support animal testing for the benefits of both humans and lives. In conclusion, these images successfully represent the interests of FBR through utilization of ethos, pathos, and logos. While ethos creates credibility to persuade audiences support animal testing, pathos triggers emotion to connect them to the goal of FBR. Furthermore, logos provide reasons and evidence to support the use of animals in research. Through both images, FBR tries to change the misperceptions people have about animal testing, while also emphasizing the importance of animals in research. Nguyen 5 Works Cited Biomedical  Foundation for Biomedical Research, fbresearch.org/biomedical- research. Accessed 11 February 2017. Animal Testing and Research Foundation for Biomedical Research, fbresearch.org/medical-advances/animal-testing-and-research-achievements. Accessed 25 February 2017. Garattini, Silvio, and Giuliano Grignaschi. Animal Testing Is Still the Best Way to Find New Treatments for  European Journal of Internal Medicine. 1 Dec. 2016. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. How Best Friend is Helping Cancer Foundation for Biomedical Research. FBR Communication, 15 Feb.2017. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.