Cherilus 1 Christina Cherilus ENC 1102 Maria Theodosiou February 26, 2017 How Time magazines pull their audiences Picture 1 Picture 2 The topic of the death penalty is a very controversial one, making stakeholders limited and some hidden, yet Time Magazines, a very popular news organization in the USA has been known to mention the topic several times and through their publishes has even picked a side to the subject. Time Magazines was founded in 1923 and has been labeled one of the most authoritative and informative guides in the worlds of many topics such as politics, business, travel, entertainment and much more (Time Magazine, About). They are a global company, have been known to spark debates, bring out the conversation that are socially unacceptable or taboo, and overall have a very strong reputation in the US (Time Magazine, About). In June 8, 2015 Cherilus 2 time magazines released a cover story about the death penalty (picture one) The picture caught the attention of many and the preceding story made sure to keep them interested. Years before that, Times magazine released a cover photo that had a lot of emotional reaction following it (Picture 2). This can prove how Time magazine uses the rhetorical appeal of pathos to pull their audiences through emotional operations, this usually gets the audiences interested enough to read and become aware, a mission statement of the company. Time magazines never literally explained why they were against the death penalty, however they have used other methods to show why is it not a method that should continue in America. They used advertisement, writers, and victims of the penalty themselves to give the audience a bias view towards the topic. Whether bias or not however there are many other professionals, historians and other authors who agree with position towards the subject such as Author Kouroutakis who believes the policy of the court is flawed and that innocents may be victimized under the power of the majorities (Kouroutakis 45). This means that sometimes the process of the case could be flawed, there may be a few cases where victims accused of sinister crimes will receive the death penalty with the lack of evidence to prove their innocence and most the court believing that they are guilty. In the first picture, there is an electric chair in a white room with a window and a clock. There is a text to the right very visible to the viewers and within that text the words Last are in larger font being the focus of this picture. Logos or appeal to (Hoffman 32) can be viewed by the text on the right, as the reader reads it, he or she becomes aware that capital punishment is ending. When they see the empty chair, they get a visual Cherilus 3 representation what the text says. The building is empty, there is no prisoner on the chair, no guards, or police officers to watch, no victims or families making it clear that the method and everything that came with is to be abandoned. The picture shows pathos or the appeal to emotion through various methods (Hoffman 22). The first method is the chair, its menacing structure and usage can bring out fear in the viewer that this exist and has taken many lives. It can also bring out relief when viewed with the text mentioned before because the viewer could be relieved or thankful that this chair may never be used again. Pathos is represented in the room itself, it is a lonely room with a depressing white paint and floor tiles, this could even make the viewer sad about the lives that were taken on similar chairs and how lonely and regretful some of these people were. The viewers can get depressed about the fear these people had when they were brought in these rooms and were faced with their deaths. The window relates to this because it is a way to literally see what is going on in that room, this person is losing their life while others are just watching it all take place, giving the viewer a feeling of isolation and neglect. The ethos or appeal of persuasion or demonstrating (Hoffman 27) in this picture is Times magazine themselves and David Von Drehle who is the author mentioned in the text to the right of the picture.  Kairos or appeal to (Hoffman 41) is found in this picture by the clock. The clock was probably placed there right above the chair to show that there are many others doomed to this fate and the longer the viewer wait, the less time these people have in the world. The viewer is being told to do something about this and to do it quick. The window is also another form of kairos because as the clock is ticking, the viewer will just be watching these innocent people die. Cherilus 4 In the second picture, we have a man sitting down in front of a grim wall, with chains on his feet and a text on his lower half. The logos in this picture can first be found in text as the reader understands that the man seen behind it is probably innocent. The man has chains in his feet as if he is trapped, this can stand for the many victims trapped under this method. The white text on the bottom also informs the reader about the situation which can bring in the pathos. The pathos is represented in many ways also in this picture. The first way it is represented is with the large text  in red. Because the viewer knows that this is a man in prison and that he is also about to face the death penalty yours can sense a feeling of sadness fear and anxiety for the man. The text  in red strictly brings out fear out the viewers. Knowing that an innocent man is due to die by the law makes the viewers fear for themselves. Another way pathos is shown in this picture is by the facial expressions, although he does not look sympathetic he does look infected subpoenaed and slightly worried giving the viewer a sense of failure as if they know this is going to happen but they cannot stop it. The face looks like it is disappointed that the law also known as the court in this case is refusing to listen to the evidence that can prove this man to be innocent. One last way pathos is shown in this picture is the grim lighting and background, it almost reminds the viewer of death filling them with a feeling of dread. The ethos in this picture is of course Times magazine and Roger Keith, the man whose death penalty is awaiting. The picture shows Kairos in one urgent way, showing the man or victim in this case and reading the text to find out he might be innocent makes the viewer anxious enough to want to do something. Knowing the court listen gives and tells the reader the drive to help this man. Cherilus 5 Both pictures had representations of pathos, ethos, logos and kairos within them. Yet, they looked as if they were created for different audiences. The first picture with the electric chair and the plain background seemed to be for the public, it was more towards informing viewers and readers about capital punishment pros and cons. Yet the second seemed to be going to an older group of the population, it seemed to have been created to enrage the viewers. Since this topic a common one in young people it makes more sense to have created it for the already educated group of the population. Someone would have had to have some understanding of the topic to understand the picture. There are a few logical fallacies in the pictures. In the first picture the logical fallacy argument from authority could have been used due to David Von Drehle although he did write a book about the subject, he is not an expert on the death penalty and therefore cannot be used to represent the subject. is used by. In the second picture the fallacy of oversimplification is used. The text makes the process of court seem easy and simple, not giving the viewer enough information on the various tasks and paperwork needed to even have a trial set up. The pictures both shows how Time magazines uses emotional manipulation through text and visual images to pull their audiences. The picture both were well made in regards to pathos because they were able to bring out emotions in the viewers, the logos in the pictures were somewhat valid, their ethos partially credible and their kairos were in fact very effective especially when put with the pathos of the text and pictures in both. Time magazines are very popular in America and they are always speaking on topic people do care about, whether they are socially taboo, upsetting or controversial. This magazine has always been known to bring out the topic everyone finds too daring to talk about, therefore to catch their fans and attention, rhetorical appeals must Cherilus 6 be strong enough to cause a reaction and to get their words across. Which to do so Time capture their audiences with pathos to keep them interested and aware. Cherilus 7 Work Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text Kouroutakis, Antonios1. Why Abolish the Death Penalty? Arguments from Madisonian  Amicus Journal 29 (2012): 43-46. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 26 Jan. 2017. TIME Magazine Cover: Roger Keith Coleman - May 18,  Time. Time Inc., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. TIME Magazine Poses Five Reasons for Death Penalty  TIME Magazine Poses Five Reasons for Death Penalty Decline Death Penalty Information Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 TIME Magazine About  Time. Time, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.