Staggers 1 William Staggers ENC 1102 Sarah Basil 16 April 2017 Public Smoking Public smoking is an issue that has been debated for a long time by both sides of sides of the argument. Smokers and non-smokers have been fighting for their individual rights to smoke and also to maintain their health but still have a clear compromise. There a definite way to completely satisfy both sides which is why the issue is so hard to resolve. People also need to understand the stakes in this issue so they can decide for themselves and make educated decisions for the community. The two sides have yet to come to a compromise which is what is needed for this issue to end. Both stakeholders have been fighting for all or nothing instead of offering the other side something in return. In order for these two sides to come together on this problem, designated smoking areas must be created for USF students in order to separate non- smokers from second-hand smoke and allow smokers to exercise their freedom to smoke. USF is a university that has banned smoking entirely and restricted anyone from smoking anywhere on campus. This is one way to deal with this issue but smokers simply going to quit. There are still areas on campus where students feel comfortable to smoke around other people. According to Olivia Dimmer, told USA TODAY College she used to study at the USF library, but now that she step out for a smoke break, she opts to stay home (Dimmer). This shows that a certain number of students are actually being limited by this ban and are more controlled by tobacco than the rules surrounding it. This interferes with Staggers 2 work and well being. Other people who are more stubborn about kicking their habit choose to just smoke right next to the library instead. This is also a big problem because this is a heavy traffic areas for students walking to and from the library. Smoking is considered an addiction by many and can not simply be quit on command. Campus wide bans fixing the problem and neither side is benefiting from an overall ban. A compromise needs to be agreed upon which will actually benefit both sides and end this long fight. As USF students, you should be concerned for your health but also the freedom of other students on campus. When one group is struggling, others are close to follow. Designated smoke areas have become a popular method of separating smokers from non-smokers in many situations. Lewis & Clark is a college that has adapted to this idea and created roughly a dozen smoking areas around their campus in order to suit needs. These areas are strategically placed around low traffic areas so that second hand smoke can be avoided. This has worked well for them and instead of instating a ban that students must adhere to, they provide all of the information that students need to make an informed decision of whether or not to smoke. This allows students to exercise their freedom as they wish as well as protect unwilling students from second hand smoke (Lewis & Clark). USF could adopt this idea as well if enough support is shown from students to make this happen. In order to make a change, USF students must petition to bring back the old policy from 2012. Students also must understand that they smoke wherever they on campus. According to Daylina Miller, many students had something to say about old tobacco policy in 2012. were mostly upset about the former policy restricting their tobacco use to a list of areas, even though they could still smoke on campus. This would mean that students Staggers 3 were still allowed to smoke on the USF campus, but not everywhere. This should make it apparent that completely banning tobacco use on campus would segregate students and isolate people more (Miller). When USF allowed smoking in 25 areas on campus, students felt isolated even then (Miller). A campus wide smoking ban would only isolate students even more and force them in to uncomfortable situations when they want to smoke. Smokers on campus must also accept this compromise in order to gain any sort of designated smoke areas on campus. Bringing designated smoke areas back is the best chance that smokers have of reaching a compromise. These areas minimize second hand smoke which is necessity in this fight. It might not seem ideal, but the fairest compromise for both sides. According to the University of Memphis, they have also set up designated smoke areas in secluded areas of campus. This ensures that other students breathing in second hand smoke (U of M). Students should be provided with as much support as possible when it comes to feeling comfortable in work environments or commutes. More universities are adopting these smoking areas every day and the results all look positive. TCU is a university in Texas that has been thinking about whether or not to allow smoking on campus in certain areas. Shain Thomas wrote an article for TCU where he explains the opinions of the campus community and weighs the pros vs cons. According to the administrative assistant for the department of nutritional sciences of TCU, personal opinion is that making something like smoking illegal on campus is counterproductive. I think people are going to do what they want regardless of whether smoking is (Thomas). The power of choice is very important when it comes to this issue because most smokers feel trapped when they they have to walk around areas all day where their habit allowed. Shain persuades that Staggers 4 people are very individualistic and simply quit what their doing in order to conform to normal standards. A policy that upholds community health standards and impede right can only have a positive impact. (Thomas). College students are pretty stubborn for the most part and just going to stop when the chances of getting caught are slim anyway. As students of USF your job to take action if you believe that this is an issue that you are vested in. in our hands to gain enough attention about this issue and speak up about it. I would encourage all of you to create petitions and sign existing ones in order to show the school that we care enough about this issue to make it possible. You can even read out to the school personally in order to make your individual voice heard. Many students care but just know how to make any change happen. Nothing will certainly happen if you the first step to making a change. You can voice your opinion to administrators or just other students but educating people about this issue is important. In conclusion, ultimately up the USF community as to whether or not designated smoking areas should be brought back. The freedom of choice always shows positive results whereas smoking bans tend to isolate students and deter them from their work. The past has shown us that campus wide bans result in zero progress. Minimizing the issue is important so that public health is preserved and health rights being violated. In order to make a change on this campus, we must speak up to the students and administrators in order to reach a compromise for both sides of this issue. The most important thing you can do is create a discussion somewhere or have someone else become involved. Staggers 5 Works Cited Health Promotion and  Designated Smoking Areas - Health Promotion and Wellness - College of Arts and Sciences - Lewis & Clark. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Limited-Use Tobacco  Limited-Use Tobacco Policy - Limited-Use Tobacco Policy - University of Memphis. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. More campuses have smoking bans -- but do they  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 06 Oct. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Staff, TCU 360. Designated smoking areas could be best  TCU 360. TCU 360, 17 Feb. 2012. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Webmaster, University Of South Florida. Students React to New Smoking  Students React to New Smoking Policy - University of South Florida. N.p., 20 Mar. 2012. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.