Chase Miller ENC 1102 Theodore Murray April 16, 2017 Overview: The reasoning behind why this paper and the accompanying presentation were made the way they are extends beyond the willingness to write them, to many a surprise I am sure. The information and ideas conveyed were of a highly controversial nature and needed to be treated with the utmost care to avoid offending the audience and thus, rendering the argument useless. This required presenting purely in a method that was designed to lead the reader to the same conclusion by providing the information necessary to arrive at said conclusion. The presentation utilizing a real life example of the trolley problem given on a classroom scale was meant to give some perspective on how much the thinking behind the disorder discussed in the paper. Assuming the class to be made entirely of individuals with a low variance form social norms on these dilemmas, it would have been easy to demonstrate just how different Antisocial Personality Disorder sufferers think compared to normal people. After the difference was discussed some degree of fMRI scanning was to be shown to, likely from Google or whatever resource provided such anonymous record for free, to model the physiological and neurochemical differences between the thinking of these individuals from the general population. However, after giving this presentation to a few other before the class showing, it was found to be too controversial to be considered to be shown in the class and was decided to be abandoned and simply left a plan of action. Miller 1 Examining the Prospect of To start, the definition of is used in a rather unfamiliar way regarding the case of individuals with Antisocial Personality Disorder (ASPD) and not fully applicable. Insanity is defined, per the Merriam-Webster dictionary, as the lack of a sound mind to the extent of preventing one from being legally capable of taking responsibility for their surroundings. This can be rather easily applied to ASPD in the sense that any disorder that has an effect on behavior and thought processes generates some degree of incompetence. To fully understand this connection, important to fully understand what ASPD is and how it affects its patients. ASPD has a rather long list of defining characteristics that only need to be present in certain quantities, seeing as ASPD is a rather large disorder. To summarize the characteristics in more easily understood language, ASPD is defined as a mixture of a lack of empathy, guilt, impulse control, and a rejection of socially accepted norms; hence the reason for the term meaning anti- society. The reason this disorder is considered an umbrella- disorder is that it has very specific characteristics that can exist in a large mixture of combinations and thus results in a large amount of subsets within the disorder, i.e. Sadistic Personality disorder, Psychopathy, Sociopathy, and many more. The implications of ASPD can be inferred from basic knowledge of its defining qualities, however a more detailed explanation and a large degree of introspection is necessary to fully the impact it can have. Individuals with ASPD are generally not considered to have a mental illness and are often misunderstood to the extent of assuming natural criminality based on choice. This misconstrued view of ASPD by society is bordering on a perversion of own ethical and moral codes and needs to be addressed to remedy an often ignored and Miller 2 misunderstood aspect of mental illness. In order to bring about this newfound understanding, the basic rendition of defining qualities need to be considered with an open mind and compared to the average thought processes in a more thinking as well as applied to real life examples of individuals demonstrating the impacts it can have. To begin on this journey of discovery, the most vital thing to do is make the best attempt one can make at internalizing the following information in as close to an objective nature as possible. Personality disorders on their own are difficult to grasp and have a tendency to make patients look as if they are choosing to be the way they are. Applying this concept to ASPD means that many people see the crimes committed by so called and as a choice on behalf of the individuals to bring pain and suffering to others because the want to. This is true in every sense of the word when considering that ASPD is generally classified with the tendency towards sadistic and violent thoughts; this is where the introspection part of the process becomes important. In order to convey this idea in a manner more easily understood, Trolley is a highly effective conduit. The trolley problem is a series of thought experiments thought up by a variety of professionals such as Philippa Foot, Judith Thomson, Frances Kamm, and a few others throughout the years from around 1900 to current day. Various twists and interpretations have been formulated for this dilemma since its conception and no real has been agreed upon on how to definitively approach the issue. However when Joshua Greene and his colleagues decided to use this test; paired with functional magnetic resonance imaging (FMRI) techniques; to test his theory on the dual process nature of moral psychology in 2001, some stunning results were found. The tests were conducted on a mixture of ASPD patients and healthy individuals to examine the effects of moral psychology on the behavioral paths chosen by individuals. These thought experiments start with the scenario of Miller 3 having the participant standing next to a lever that can change the direction a trolley coming down a track will follow. The track the trolley is initially on is a direct course to running over and killing five unidentified individuals, where as the track that pulling the lever will divert the trolley onto only has one unidentified individual. The purpose of the test is to see whether or not the participants will pull the lever or not. As the experiment goes on, conditions are changed to test how emotional attachment and responsibility affect the responses. This thought experiment has been adapted and changed overtime in an attempt to more widely cover and explain within ethical boundaries which action is the proper one, however the initial idea it was used to test has remained rather consistent. In the initial test, the healthy individuals almost always chose to diver the trolley and sacrifice the one individual to save the five. Although as more conditions were changed, the healthy individuals had a much harder time making decisions and had a tendency to more widely differ from the ASPD choices. According to Joshua conclusions on the research, it was found that different brain areas lit up in accordance to how or the dilemmas were. Although, in the case of the ASPD patients, it was easy to see that there was no distinction between the two types of dilemmas. Having discussed how the trolley problem was set up and, not completely literally, executed, this can now lead into the use of introspection to see how the thought processes differ so strongly between ASPD patients and The ASPD patients chose to save the five people and kill the one, just as the control/healthy group did, however as the conditions changed throughout the experiment the ASPD groups continued to choose the more logistically sound outcomes while the control group varied their reasoning. For example, one of the conditions changed resulted in the need to push a considerably large man over a bridge to stop the trolley from hitting the five people instead of simply pulling a lever and diverting the track. Miller 4 In this scenario, the control group more often chose to not push the man over due to the reasoning that the action was too close to killing someone and was more disturbing than an action that could be more easily dissociated from murder, i.e. pulling a lever. When this condition was changed for the ASPD group however, the answer required no contemplation for the most part, most individuals simply chose to heave the fat man overboard because it would save more lives. This explained reasoning is one of the most direct examples of how ASPD thought processes differ from normal individuals. These individuals had negligible moral and/or ethical interference with their decision making and instead made their decisions based entirely on which outcome was more logistically sound. The healthy patients could not make decisions in this manner and instead were more flustered due to the they perceived to be important to the decision making process. Having established the necessary background information and exposure to the difference in cognitive reasoning between individuals with ASPD and healthy individuals, time to apply this to more controversial real life examples. One of the most notorious cases is the morbid actions of Ted Bundy. Bundy was allegedly charged with over thirty counts of rape, kidnapping and murder as well as attempted murder. This surprising when examining his profile and often surprised profilers that he claimed more victims with the level of efficacy that he exercised in these crimes. All be it, Ted Bundy was and still is considered one of the most evil men in history, however some of his statements can shed some light on how ASPD can so drastically influence people. where having an open mind is absolutely crucial to considering the ideas proposed objectively. During one of his interviews, Ted Bundy commented on his idea of guilt, essentially saying that it solves nothing and that he was lucky to not have it. This alone should be a red flag to tip off irregular thinking patterns, and is where the Miller 5 introspection must be applied to avoid any bias in the information presented in his case. This man quite obviously was in the head; he had no feelings of guilt, he was considered unreasonably charismatic, narcissistic and fully understood the difference between right and wrong. These are all directly related to defining characteristics of ASPD, and hence why the distinction between individuals with ASPD and healthy people is so important to understand. He understood right and wrong, just as any other person more than likely does, however this seemed to have no effect on his behavior. This means that his actions cannot be rationalized by the fact that he understand that what he was doing was wrong. However, if his lack of guilt is perceived this can lend some degree of light as to why he chose this course of action. ASPD patients oftentimes seek to be in control and in some cases even get pleasure or fantasize about causing others harm. If a healthy person is examined, they often times wish to cause others harm and similarly will regret the experience and feel towards their actions. This is what holds many people back from action out their every desire and fantasy. In Ted case, he even admitted that he feel it and was glad he He was different in that unlike most people he wanted to hurt people and feel the guilt to hold him back. This only apply to him but instead to most, if not all, serial killers diagnosed with ASPD. This is why ASPD patients be considered so looked down upon by the world; they have no control over this. Just as people with Obsessive Compulsive Personality Disorder have no control over their obsessions and oftentimes their behaviors associated with their compulsions, ASPD patients have no concept of thinking processes outside of their own. They have thought as they do for as long as they remember and they see nothing wrong with it. Of course this mean that serial killers should be allowed to roam free and act as they wish, just outrageous. This simply means that these individuals need to be and not convicted. They are incapable Miller 6 of making decisions based on any reasonable-man-like standard and are very easily diagnosed with a mental illness. All in al, the differences between individuals with ASPD and healthy individuals should be considered more often when choosing how to go about dealing with them and their actions. Society itself should be more open minded to the idea that these individuals may not just be but instead that these individuals are in need of help and not punishment. Overall, the information provided will be interpreted and internalized however one fit, the only stipulation requested is that the information and concepts be considered with an open mind. Psychological research and understanding has grown drastically over the years and can now even show the differences in brain activity of these individuals from healthy individuals. Any opposing opinions or disagreements with the discussion presented are no less valid and any agreements and supporting opinions, or even any uninterested or obligatory views. As mentioned previously, the only purpose of the information and concepts presented was to inspire a more open minded view of events and encounters with ASPD and possibly influence a more progressive course of action towards handling said experiences, regardless of the direction the progression tends towards. References Greene, J. D., Sommerville, R. B., Nystrom, L. E., Darley, J. M., & Cohen, J. D. (2001). An fMRI investigation of Miller 7 emotional engagement in moral judgment. Science (New York, N.Y.), 293(5537), Greene, J. D. (2007). Why are VMPFC patients more utilitarian? A dual-process theory of moral judgment explains. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 11(8), author reply