Rodriguez 1 Genevieve Rodriguez Professor Aranda ENC 1102-033 11, April 2017 Save the Sea Turtles Sea turtles are a beautiful creature that can be found along the Florida coastline. They are a gentle species and tend to eat anything that looks like their favorite meal. Floating debris like a plastic bag or rope can look like a favorite meal to a sea turtle. The Sea Turtle Hospital in Marathon Florida has a mission to end this confusion with sea turtles mistaking trash for food. The Sea Turtle Hospital says is nearly impossible for a turtle to break-down synthetic material once it is ingested, and very often it will cause an intestinal blockage, called an condition will usually lead to (turtlehospital.org). Every third Saturday of the month there will be a beach cleanup open to everyone in Florida. With the help of the Florida coast line residents there can be a movement to the reduction of trash in the ocean. There was a viral video that came out in 2015 about a sea turtle with a straw in its nose. Rescuers found the turtle in distress and took immediate action to get the straw out as the straw was restricting=ng her airway. After about six minutes of struggle they are able to dislodge the straw. With a sigh of relief the rescuers were able to take the sea turtle back to their facility and make sure there any permeant damage. Once the turtle was given the all clear she was released back into the ocean where she could live her life free of discomfort from the straw (NO to Plastic Straws). In a recent article by Robyn Albritton, a writer for sailersofthesea.org, states that are consistently on the top 10 lists for marine debris collected every year during the Rodriguez 2 International Coastal (Skip a Straw). A straw is something that most of the population use every day. This could be minimalized by using less straws on a daily basis. A common time for straws to be used is on spring break. During spring break multiple college students flock to Florida beaches. When there is a higher population there is a greater chance of pollution. In Miami they have invested in putting trash cans every 200 feet on all of their beaches to help with this problem. This is something can happen all along the coast of Florida. According to the SEE Turtle Foundation of thousands of sea turtles, whales, and other marine mammals, and more than 1 million seabirds die each year from ocean pollution and ingestion or entanglement in marine (page 1). Humans are the ones who create this mess and humans are the ones who can help minimize the impact. One positive step will be to start a monthly beach cleanup. The Sea Turtle Hospital has agreed to sponcer this cleanup and provide gloves, trash bags, and sunscreen to all who sign up. The beach cleanup is anticipated to happen every third Saturday of the month. This will decrease the amount of trash on our beaches as well as the amount of trash that ends up in the ocean. This can help not only the marine life but the tourist industry and any students who need volunteer hours. The Sea Turtle Hospital in Marathon, Florida has been a huge contributor to the rescue and rehabilitation of sea turtles by saving over 1500 sea turtles since 1986. The Sea Turtle Hospital has many ways to help sea turtles. People can a turtle by donating a small fee toward a surgery. There is also a membership people can sign up for to continually help with research. They have outreach classes that educate people about the diet of a sea turtle, the environment the sea turtles live in, and nesting (turtlehospital.org). This is a fantastic way for people to learn more and find out other ways to help. What he Sea Turtle Hospital Outreach Group does is they go to schools to educate students on how to help protect sea turtles in their Rodriguez 3 area. They go over basic anatomy, hospital information, environmental impact, sea turtle nesting, rehabilitation, and many more. A lot of the time litter gets to the ocean from landfills and suburban yards (seeturtles.org). Trash is something that does not get talked about enough in normal conversation. The Florida population needs to become more aware about where our trash goes. If everyone just picked up a piece of trash every time they saw one the world would be a cleaner place. Two men have made this their mission. They walked from Mexico to the British Columbia Canada boarder and picked up anything from mattresses to cigarette butts. Every time they saw a piece of trash they made sure it was disposed of properly. They wanted to make sure the trash get into some place where it These men did it to keep the outdoors as beautiful as it should be. One of the men Seth said was a habit I wanted to share, and influence other values. We want to have trash all along our scenic (independent.co.uk). This is just a small way that humans can make an impact on our land. There was no information on how much trash was picked up of their scenic trails but from the pictures it looked like a great amount. Trash is a part of human nature now as the world gets more and more industrialized. This will continually keep impacting the ocean if human interaction make a step in the positive direction. A beach cleanup a huge step but it is a start. Rodriguez 4 Work Cited Vooght, Clare. Two Friends Walked from Mexico to Canada and Picked up Every Piece of Rubbish They Saw along the  The Independent. Independent Digital News and Media, 26 Dec. 2016. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. The Turtle Hospital. Rescue, Rehab, Release. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. SEE Turtles. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Your Spring Break Partying Could Be Ruining the  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 23 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Albritton, Robyn Skip a Straw Save a  Sailors for the Sea. N.p., 08 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Sea Turtle with Straw up Its Nostril -  TO PLASTIC STRAWS. Perf. CostaRicanSeaTurtles. YouTube, 10 Aug. 2015. Web. 29 Apr. 2017.