Keever 1 John Keever Sabbah Uddin Composition 1 25 April 2017 The Inefficiency of Drug Prohibition and the Alternative In 1971 president Richard Nixon declared drug abuse public enemy number one. Since then, drug prohibition based laws and policies have been enacted within the US federal government in an attempt to stop the flow of drugs into the United States. Drug prohibition is intended to incarcerate drug traffickers in an effort to reduce or eradicate the supply of drugs nationwide. Recently, support for drug prohibition has shifted as the negative effects of the prohibition have become unmistakably discernible. With a 500 percent increase in the number of individuals incarcerated over the past three decades and a $30 billion dollar a year budget for the DEA (Drug Enforcement Agency) alone, no wonder people are shifting their views (Boettke 1080). In the late 1980s, the harm reduction approach was constituted by a number of groups such as the Foundation for AIDS research and the AIDS brigade. These social activist were key in support for harm reduction based programs and making the push towards these types of policies. While many of these practices and programs are implemented within the US, policy makers and US government officials have been reluctant to fully embrace harm reduction. The goal of this approach is simple: create policies with a clear emphasis on programs and practices that reduce the harms associated with the abuse of psychoactive drugs in people who are unable or unwilling to stop their use. While drug prohibition based policies are still being implemented into United States legislation today, they negatively effect the lives of millions creating mass incarceration, corruption, political destabilization and human rights abuses nationwide. These Keever 2 prohibitive laws and policies have proven ineffective at reducing the use of drug abuse within the United States and although harm reduction is considered a new idea by many researchers, harm reduction focuses on rehabilitation rather than the demonization of illicit drug users. The idea behind prohibition is a world without illicit drugs, which is an impossible task to achieve. Since its beginnings, War on Drugs has caused an undeniable mixture of economic and social consequences for United States. The amount of prisoners between 1980 and 1993 alone increased by nearly tenfold (Harvard 1487 - 1488). An increased influx of prisoners causes a major increase in a needs. As the Harvard Law Review puts it: Federal and state prison needs dramatically, and now require over 1600 new prison beds each week to keep pace with new arrests and conviction . . . The fixed cost of building a prison ranges from $60,000 to $75,000 per inmate, and the average operating cost is about $60 per day per inmate, or about $22,000 annually per inmate. (Harvard 1487) This increase in prisoners has consequently resulted in state prison budgets exceeding one billion in places such as California, Florida, Michigan, New York, and Texas. In addition to that, it also caused the federal prison budget to exceed 1 billion (Harvard 1488). This unnecessary increase has ultimately caused a heavy economic burden on the United States. Siphoning tax money away from education and public health into prison costs for non-violent drug offenders. Besides the economic consequences, the prohibition has arguably done the most damage to society through its social consequences. Due to the incarceration of nonviolent drug offenders, Keever 3 the United states prison system causes a number of systemic human right issues towards minorities. The United States --in comparison to the rest of the world-- has about five percent of the population and yet 25 percent of the prison population which is roughly 2.24 million prisoners (Boettke 1080). Of those 2.24 million prisoners, African Americans make up about 40 percent of those prison inmates. The reason why African Americans account for almost half of all prison inmates is due to the many consequences of a systemic violence that is pointed at African Americans. Worn stereotypes can be clearly seen in a survey conducted in 1995 that asked 100,000 white Americans how they typically envisioned an illicit drug user, of respondents a black person when asked how they envisioned a typical illegal drug even though 76% of illicit drug users are (Harvard 1489). This statistic feeds the perception that all African-Americans are drug users and/or are involved in illicit crimes and drug related violence. Although the impossible to calculate the exact social costs of drug prohibition, the prejudice towards African Americans created by these perceptions are unmistakably huge. This stereotype towards African Americans propagates the unfair treatment they experience in dealings with the criminal justice system. Along with these social and economic costs, drug prohibition ignores basic economic ideas that cause it to be extremely inefficient at stopping the abuse of drugs nationwide. The main focus of drug prohibition is to eradicate the supply of drugs and incarcerate drug traffickers. But this ignores one of the most fundamental economic principles: if you decrease the supply of a product without decreasing the demand, the price of the product goes up. This would normally effect the sale of many products, but not drugs. The drug market is not price sensitive, meaning drugs will be consumed no matter what the costs. The result is an increase in production of drugs and recruitment of more traffickers which increases availability. This is the Keever 4 balloon effect: even if a major drug producer or supply route is seized; the supply for the end user will not be reduced (Laffiteau 16). Harm reduction is a better solution. Instead of reducing the supply of drugs, we treat those afflicted. This decreases the demand for the drug. This way, suppliers will run out of business. Many researchers question the effectiveness of harm reduction as opposed to prohibition, stating the being too new and (Savary 3). People opposed to harm reduction laws fear that it help the problem, that drug users will take advantage of these new policies and drugs will be more rampant than before. They assert that the fear prohibition incites in drug users is the only effective way to combat increasing drug rates. However, as seen in my example below, their logic is skewed and, in fact, harm reduction educates the larger population and, with its focus on rehabilitation, reduces drug use. Prohibition on the other hand places an importance on drugs while propagating an ignorance on their properties that creates a hotbed of experimentation and addiction. They assert that the newness of harm reduction lends itself to a high price tag on a conversion of policies. However, with the money we waste on incarceration and fear propaganda, a reallocation of funds will actually save money. Harm reduction based policies have already proven to be effective when implemented. An example of this would be the heroin crisis in Switzerland. In the 1980s, Switzerland experienced a public health crises due to heroin use. HIV rates skyrocketed and street crime became a problem. In order to counteract this, Switzerland implement the four pillars harm reduction strategy: prevention, treatment, harm reduction, enforcement. They opened free heroin maintenance centers that allowed abusers access to free heroin of high quality in addition to clean needles, safe injection rooms, showers, beds and even medical supervision. With social workers that helped them find housing and jobs, many people were able to return to their normal Keever 5 lives (Savary 4). The concluding result rise in heroin consumption . . . [being halted and steadily since the early (Savary 5). According to Savary, the strategy also reduced the amount of deaths that are associated with drug use, such as overdosing, HIV, and Hepatitis. 1991 and 2004, the drug related death toll fell by more than (Savary 5). Drug prohibition is an outdated and inefficient ideology that has led to problems nationwide including drug related violence, abuses in human rights, political destabilization, and corruption. It has negatively impacted lives of millions and has caused the separation of families, and has influenced the cultural views of what an illicit drug user is to look like. Drug prohibition is the resource that fuels most issues that we associate with illicit drug use. Even though harm reduction based approach is a new and upcoming idea, the urgency to implement it has been greater than ever. It is solely up to us as citizens of the United States to properly educate ourselves and to be proactive in pushing legislation towards harm reduction based policies. By voting for political figures and legislation that supports harm reduction policies, we can reduce the economic and social costs of the the United States drug prohibition or on After 40 years of fighting, it is time to finally end the war on drugs, which is actually a war on the most vulnerable of our citizens. Keever 6 Works Cited Cohen, Michael M. Jim Drug War: Race, Coca Cola, and the Southern Origins of Drug  Southern Cultures. The University of North Carolina Press, 2006. Web. 25 April 2017. Csete, Joan. The Lancet: Public Health and International Drug  TheLancet. The Lancet, 2016. Web. 25 April 2017. the War on Drugs: A for Nonviolent Drug Harvard Law Review, vol. 113, no. 6, 2000, pp. Print. Kyser, Nicole Marie. Counselor Attitudes toward the Harm Reduction Approach in Substance Abuse  Dissertation Abstracts International Section A: Humanities and Social Sciences, vol. 71, no. 11-A, 2011, p. 3913. Print. Laffiteau, Charles. The Balloon Effect: The Failure of Supply Side Strategies in the War on  Ecprnet.eu. Charles Laffiteau. Web. 25 April 2017. Boettke, Peter J., et al. Keep off the Grass: The Economics of Prohibition and U.S. Drug  Oregon Law Review, no. 4, 2013, p. 1069. Print. Savary, Jean-Felix. The Swiss Four Pillars Policy: An Evolution From Local Experimentation to Federal  Academia.edu. Jean-Felix Savary. Web. 25 April 2017.