Hoggins 1 Ronnie Hoggins Professor TJ ENC 1102 30 April 2017 The Importance of Investing In Football Helmet Technologies Brain trauma affects one in three players in the National Football League (NFL), and an average of 167 concussions occur in the regular season, including games and practices (Foster, 2012). Receivers and corners have been found to suffer more concussions than other players. Concussions can have both short term and long-term effects on your brain, especially if they properly treated. Therefore, football helmet safety has been a concern in recent years. New knowledge on the effects that concussions have on the brain, as well as improvements in helmet technology have resulted in better and safer helmets. These newly engineered helmets allow for players to safely continue to play the game that they love. In order to do this, football helmet research needs to be funded. This is important because the safety and lives of the athletes depend on the creation of better football helmets. Concussions during a game of football are not rare, and concussion rates continue to rise without the use of newer and safer helmets. A total of 59 concussions were caused by helmet-to-helmet or shoulder-to-helmet hits this season, the data says, almost exactly half as many as two years ago. Also, there were 111 concussions in games during the 2014 regular season, down from 148 in 2013, and 173 in 2012, a 36 percent drop over that three-year span (Fendrich 2015). Advances in technology make for better protection of the head and cause less injury. The helmets used in football have evolved over the Hoggins 2 years tremendously and have prevented many concussions from occurring. The ideal would be cost effective, be made out of light but sturdy material, and have a carefully engineered frame to minimize the number of concussions a player receives. Over the years, the helmet has advanced to better support the head. Experiments as well as stimulations have been performed to test the safety of the helmet. For example, video games and other types of simulation devices have been used to determine the forces acting on the head, brain, and helmet during a concussion. Better helmet technologies were developed with the help of simulation machines, which tested for weak or fragile parts of a helmet. By creating a helmet that is more resistant to impact force, the head can be better protected. Companies such as Riddell, Schutt and Xenith all collaborated to using the Multi-Directional Impact Protection System helmets to reduce concussion in football making it a safer game. The importance of developing safer football helmets continues to increase. Many people are invested in this research, including doctors, engineers, and athletes. The research on football helmet research is expensive and proper funding is crucial to continuing research. Concussions affect people of many different ages, ranging from young children to high school athletes to adults in the NFL. Parents of children who play football should donate and invest in football helmets research because it affects their children. The more funding that goes towards these research programs, the safer the helmets will become for the athlete. With safer helmets that the parents can trust, they can have a piece of mind that their child is safe when playing this sport. Hoggins 3 New knowledge on the effects concussions have on the brain, as well as improvements in helmet technology have increased the safety of football as a sport. Continuing the research on how to make a safer helmet is essential to the safety of the athletes. Additionally, continuing the funding on football helmets will allow engineers and doctors to continue research on developing safer football helmets. However, the only way to do this is through your help and support. With you contributions, we can keep athletes safer while they continue to play the traditional American sport. Hoggins 4 Works Cited Ahmadisoleymani, S. Saeed, and James Yang. American Football Helmet For Preventing Concussion, A Literature  Procedia Manufacturing 3.6th International Conference on Applied Human Factors and Ergonomics (AHFE 2015) and the Affiliated Conferences, AHFE 2015 (2015): 3796-3803. ScienceDirect. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. New Football Helmet Could Save the  Popular Science. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. NFL says reported concussions down 25 percent this  Pro32: Head to Head. N.p., 29 Jan. 2015. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. Press, Associated. NFL: Concussions down 25  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 29 Jan. 2015. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.