Ryan Casey Professor Udin April 7, 2017 ENC 1101 - MW: 9:30-10:45 Final Draft - Project 2 Marijuana, it has had quit the past here in the United States leaving many to wonder what the future of the drug will be and how it will affect the general public. Some of the most famous people have used or are in favor of the drug from Bill Gates the richest man on the planet to pictures of our previous president Barack Obama at a young age enjoying a nice little joint. Yet it is still illegal and a very hot topic today. There are people that think the legalization of marijuana would have more negative effects than positive effects and then there are others who believe just the opposite. That legalizing it would be more beneficial to our economy than keeping it illegal. Since marijuana was made illegal there have been many walls set up to keep the drug from becoming legal and there have been many more measures taken to try and bring those walls down. Over the past few decades the argument to legalize marijuana has been the favored side by a majority of people. Seaton Thedinger wrote an article called in the United States: International and U.S. Regulation and Control of Industrial in 2006 to argue in favor of legalizing hemp and how it would positively affect the U.S. economy. Hemp is the part of a marijuana plant that used for drugs but can have many other industrial uses. Benefits of using hemp include the reduction of wood used to make paper, poisonous lead put in paints, cotton in textile industries and many other uses. Thedinger discusses how the U.S. government fails to recognize the industrial use of hemp from the drug part of the plant making it illegal to produce in the U.S. Those opposed say legalizing hemp is just a strategy to legalize the drug use of the plant. He argues the economic and environmental success Canada and other industrialized nations have had from the legalized use of hemp is more than enough reasoning for the U.S. government to legalize the production of hemp. As you can see, in 2006, the legalization of marijuana to benefit the U.S. economy was the favored side of the argument. Marijuana Giving Crime Fighters a was an article written in 2010 by the New Zealand Herald. This article is discussing how growers, patients and dispensaries in places where medical marijuana has been legalized are becoming victims of theft. It talks about a situation in which a grower in seattle almost shot and killed a robber because his growing operation has been robbed not once, not twice, but nine times. People claim that further legalizing marijuana would actually decrease crime especially from Mexican Cartel. However, in the article it takes the report of a police captain that lives in area where cartel crime is very high feels further legalization would only increase the amount of crimes involving marijuana. This article was used to sway people to keep marijuana illegal in the U.S. and shows how the argument has both people in favor and against the legalization of marijuana. Use and Motor Vehicle was published in 2012. This article discusses how states and the District of Columbia where the use of medical marijuana has been decriminalized and how this has correlated to the increase in DUI accidents. Even though marijuana impair your judgement as bad as alcohol it does still impair your judgement and slows your reaction time. Making driving a motor vehicle while under the influence of marijuana a very dangerous task. The authors looked at articles and statistics dating back to the to determine how increased your chances are of being in an accident while under the influence. This article shows that people even in 2012 were still opposed to the legalization of marijuana. This article shows how the argument over the legalization of marijuana changed over time. The final article and regulating marijuana in Canada: Review of potential economic, social, and health was written in 2016 by Mohammad Halizadeh. This article is talking about how Canada has benefited from legalizing medical marijuana and close to legalizing it recreationally. Legalizing marijuana in Canada has made medical marijuana readily available for cancer patients and other patients who really need it. The legal production of hemp in Canada has become a huge source of tax revenue for the Canadian government. Due to laws making possession of marijuana only a small final instead of a criminal act almost a quarter of the population has tried marijuana in the past year even though it is illegal. Polls have been taken in Canada on whether or not marijuana should be legal and more than half of the people asked were in favor of the decriminalization of marijuana. This discussion is very similar to the research topic whether or not legalizing marijuana would be beneficial to the U.S. economy. It also shows how the discussion changed over the past few decades.