Henshaw 1 Tamara Henshaw 12 April, 2017 Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 The Silent Hero When you were a kid did you ever want to be a superhero, like Batman or Wonder Women? Well what if someone said that you can be a hero, just by speaking out or helping someone in need. A survey taken from 24 different high schools shows that 10-20% of adolescents between the age of 10 and 24 are bullied online and 20-30% admit to being involved by either being the bully, the victim or the bystander (Litwiller Brausch 2). Everyone has witnessed someone being bullied, harassed, or hazed at least once. The Stop Bullying organization is working with schools grades kindergarten to 12th to let the word be known that bullying needs to come to an end. Stop Bullying will be holding a support group to give children the chance to speak up and get help their bullying situation. The support group is called the Silent Heros and will be held every weekend 12 to 7pm. Speaking up and getting someone help can change the outcome of any situation. Bullying is serious issue that have resulted in depression, suicide, and children harming themselves in ways like cutting their arms and legs. In a journal article Bullying and Physical Bullying in Adolescent Suicide: The Role of Violent Behavior and Substance written by Brett Litwiller and Amy Brausch it states, were taken from a large risk-behavior screening study with a sample of 4,693 public high school students (mean age = 16.11, 47 % female). The findings showed that both physical bullying and cyberbullying associated Henshaw 2 with substance use, violent behavior, unsafe sexual behavior, and suicidal There are many different types of bullying such as cyber bullying, harassment and hazing. Cyberbullying is a form of bullying that uses any electronic device to disown or discredit someone. This act of bullying has proved to be the reason more children are hurting themselves or committing suicide. The reason for this is because electronic devices are becoming more popular and easier to get, children even at young ages know how to work these devices and have social media accounts. Harassment is the act of intimidating or pressuring someone, many cases of harassment are in working environments and are sexual. Hazing is a type of bullying that happens a lot in sororities and fraternities or even trying to join groups and is illegal. This is the when a person is singled out or forced to do something to join into a group that humiliates someone. Being bullied in any type of way can cause a child to go into depression and can cause them to do dangerous things to himself or to others. Knowing that someone is there for you and understands changes that mindset. In a study done by the National Bullying Prevention Center, students who are bullied are at risk of depression, poor school adjustment, sleep difficulties, and anxiety. Students that are being the bully also experience harm to themselves, that being the risk for academic problems, substance use, and violent behavior later in adolescence and adulthood. Given these statistics children are more prone to hurting themselves and if no one speaks up they can not get help. Only 39% of people who do speak up and get help have any issues. Did you know that more than half of bullying situations (57%) stop when a peer intervenes on behalf of the student being bullied The reason behind why children would refuse to speak up is because they are told not to tattle or they do not want to be a tattle tell. We must come Henshaw 3 together and help these children get help before too late. The saying the skin is something that comes to mind when a person is being bullied. Studies show that people who are bullied are bullied 55% about how they look, 37% about the shape of their body, and 16% about the color of their skin Not only are children bullied for the color of their skin or how their body looks, they are also bullied for the gender they prefer to date or dress like. Statistics show that 55.5% of LGBT students feel unsafe at school because of their sexual orientation, and 37.8% because of their gender expression. Over 282,000 students are physically attacked in secondary schools each month Most of these children are from the African American, the Asian, and the Hispanic descent. For these reasons, people hate what they look like and who they are. A quote by Tommy Tran states try to say suicide is the most cowardly act a man could ever commit. I think true at all. cowardly is treating a man so badly that he wants to commit all help lower these statistics and get these children help. The Silent Hero program want to reach out and help all of these children and young adults in seeking the help they need. It is going to help make these children more aware of the fact that they are not alone and that there is someone listening and would like to help them. It is a support group that has activities that will allow the student to come out about what they are going through and be able to know what to do to stop being bullied. This program also gives insight on what to do when being a bystander to someone being bullied and how they could help. This program is not just for victims but anyone wanting to lend a helping hand to lowering the suicide numbers, to lowering the depression in children, and to help by taking one step closer to ending bullying. The Silent Hero is a place for students to find their safe haven. Everyone wants Henshaw 4 to know they are not alone, anyone can make that first step to help end bullying, someone must speak out. You do not need super powers or to swing from buildings to be hero. All you have to do is lend a helping hand when someone is being knocked down. Henshaw 5 Work Cited Litwiller, Brett1 and Amy2, amy.brausch@wku.edu Brausch. Cyber Bullying and Physical Bullying in Adolescent Suicide: The Role of Violent Behavior and Substance  Journal of Youth & vol. 42, no. 5, May 2013, pp. 675-684. doi:10.1007/s10964-013-9925-5 Litwiller, B., & Brausch, A. a. (2013). Cyber Bullying and Physical Bullying in Adolescent Suicide: The Role of Violent Behavior and Substance Use. Of Youth & 675-684. National Bullying Prevention April 16, 2017