Wilson 1 Mary Wilson Instructor Alison Missler ENC 1102 3 May 2017 Drinking Age in Youth Today Eighteen-year-olds are considered legal adults in the United States. However, they do not have the right to alcohol until the age of twenty-one. This debate has been constantly debated since prohibition and National Minimum Drinking Age Act of 1984. This act prevents states with a drinking age lower than twenty-one from getting State highway funds. Therefore, in 1984, all the states started to slowly bring up their drinking age to twenty-one so that they received this state funding (APIS). Now-a-days, the drinking age is a widely-debated topic in America. While some say that the drinking age should remain at twenty-one, or even be raised to twenty-five, there are many people who believe adults between the ages eighteen and twenty should have the right to drink alcohol added to their adulthood choices. If one who is eighteen is considered an adult, why should they not be given only one freedom? At eighteen, you are considered an adult by law. You, a college student, should be able to drink at your own free will, and legally. The ability to drink is considered a privilege in most countries. However, at the age of eighteen, one gets just about all the privileges except alcohol consumption. According to the Oxford English Dictionary, an adult is defined as person having reached the age of maturity; grown (OED). Even though eighteen is considered the age of maturity, those eighteen do not have the right to drink by American law. At eighteen, one can smoke, vote in political elections, enlist in the military, sign legal contracts, marry without parent consent, divorce, be tried as an adult in criminal court, serve on a jury, and many more responsibilities. Wilson 2 These represent adulthood, except alcohol consumption, which adults must wait until twenty-one to participate in. If those eighteen are considered adults, then they should be able to be responsible enough to make their own decision as to whether to drink. Those who advocate for the drinking age to be twenty-one or higher usually advocate for that because of statistics. In Dale article Pros and Cons of Drinking at he quotes David Hanson (PhD who has studied alcohol and drinking for over 40 years) by stating while it is true that less teens are drinking, when they do drink they actually drink more, and in fact, drink to (Archer). Archer brings up this point because those who drink in secret are not safely drinking. Most who drink underage end up binge drinking because in schools, kids are just taught not to drink, they are in no way taught how to safely drink. Binge drinking is defined by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism as pattern of drinking that brings blood alcohol concentration (BAC) levels to 0.08 (NIAAA). Binge drinking is very dangerous and often leads to many health problems. Though the statistics do show that a lower drinking age saves lives, according to Choose Responsibility, a stakeholder in the drinking age debate, as many 21-year-olds died in alcohol-related auto accidents as (Choose Responsibility). The statistics imply that while the current law saves people between eighteen and twenty, those who can drink, go out and drink irresponsibly just because they can. If society actually taught kids about safe drinking, and allowed them to drink at the age of adulthood, the statistics could decrease. While statistics show the real effects of alcoholism in youth, psychology is a major factor in underage drinking. When people are told not to do something, more often than not, people will go to do that thing anyways. This is the same for if an eighteen-year-old is given almost every freedom except alcohol consumption. When young adults feel unjustly targeted, Wilson 3 they will resist and choose not to comply (Archer). Though the point of the law is to reduce drinking in youth, by doing so the government is just creating a sense of rebellion in people ages eighteen to twenty. According to Geoff article people use reverse psychology? An exploration of strategic MacDonald states that do use as a social influence tactic with some frequency in real-world influence (MacDonald). In this case, however, the reverse psychology is not being used on purpose. The government does not intend to use reverse psychology on young adults, however, because the government is saying to those eighteen to twenty, then those of the age group just want to do the opposite. Instead of restricting access to alcohol all together for a certain age group, the American government should spend some time truly educating its youth on alcohol, how to use it correctly, and how to not abuse it. As a college student, you can make a difference to further the notice of this controversial issue. Sign the petition to lower the drinking age at http://petitions.moveon.org/sign/lower-the- legal-drinking-1. By signing the petition, you can help raise awareness that not all adults have all rights. Age should not determine maturity, the ability to be responsible should. You can also help the cause by being fully educated on the specifics of alcohol safety. By doing this, one can help to assure the right to responsibility to all adults. Responsibility is the key to trust in a society like America, society has to start trusting people with responsibility somewhere, it might as well be with the drinking age. Society already trusts eighteen-year-olds with so many responsibilities, when given the responsibility to choose whether to drink, there are many people who still would choose not to drink. Regardless of what they would choose, adults should still have that option to not conform with statistics. By using reverse psychology, many people in that age group may even choose not to drink because it is Wilson 4 legal. To support the cause, sign the petition at http://petitions.moveon.org/sign/lower-the-legal- drinking-1. This right should be a right not limited by age, but rather maturity due to adulthood. Wilson 5 Work Cited Archer, Dale. Pros and Cons of Drinking At Psychology Today. July 13, 2012. www.psychologytoday.com/blog/reading-between-the-headlines/201207/the-pros-and cons-drinking-18. Accessed April 16, 2017. MacDonald, Geoff, et al. Do People Use Reverse Psychology? An Exploration of Strategic Self-  Social Influence, vol. 6, no. 1, Jan. 2011, pp. 1-14. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/15534510.2010.517282. Discover the Story of EnglishMore than 600,000 Words, over a Thousand  Home : Oxford English Dictionary. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 May 2017. Levels National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. www.niaaa.nih.gov/alcohol-health/overview-alcohol-consumption/moderate-binge drinking Accessed April 16, 2017. Legal Age 21 been effective in reducing the number of alcohol related fatalities for those aged 18 to Choose Responsibility. Accessed April 16, 2017. The 1984 National Minimum Drinking Age  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 03 May 2017.