Kaushal 1 PLEASE READ THE ADDITION I MADE TO THIS COVER LETTER EXPLANING MY CALL TO ACTION (sorry for the caps) Before reading the I wrote, I think you are probably wondering what exactly is my topic? Well, a good question I know myself. Just kidding, I wanted to broach the subject of satire. More specifically, I wanted to convey that satire is an effective and meaningful method of educating and informing the masses about a variety of issues (from trivial to serious). Satire, which is a way of criticizing people or ideas to show that they have faults or are (Definition of Satire), is the perfect way to elucidate various issues, because generally people tend to respond easier when specific things are told to them in a jokey, or not- so-serious tone (hope not wait I am). Furthermore, it has been reported and studied that satire encourages and models promising new ways for people to (Young). Thus, I thought what better way to show why satire works is by taking the model that The Colbert Show used, and The Daily Show continues to use and talk about issues that students have here at USF. I do this just to fulfill my dream of having my own show like The Daily Show (completely the reason why I did this), but I thought since typically most college students like myself really pay that much attention (more like I care) about things going on campus, see if I can engage USF students in a way that is not only captivating/fun/any other word that means fun, but also brings awareness to things going around the current in. However, regardless of the irrational confidence I have in my satirical, comedic, and conversational abilities, conveying specific topics in this unique way may not work whatsoever. The Colbert Report, The Daily Show, and shows like these usually attract specific groups of people smart and intelligent kidding again, or not), they can almost be classified as niche groups of people. What trying is to convey is that, this satirical approach Kaushal 2 can be met with some disdain, mainly because people think it is making a mockery of the traditional and expected ways of news/information delivery. However (again), I think a satirical approach to news/information is exactly what could galvanize students here at USF to take a more active role in being involved, or at the very least be informed about what exactly is going on campus besides being solely immersed in their courses. In fact, I think this a great way to segue into what my call-to-action really is for this project. In my script, at the very end, I do have a moment where the dialogue suggests to viewers (hopefully college students and not just my grandmother making me feel better about myself) that, essentially, they have the unique ability to create change, and that they just have to go out and get started. Now you are probably thinking could I get any vaguer? Well fret not, my call to action is there, and really my call to action was the creation of this script. The message trying to convey is that if someone feels passionate/enthused/unenthused/etc. about a certain topic/event/etc. then they should go do something about it (of course nothing crazy)! For example, I thought that many USF students were being unreasonable about the parking situation, and were paying way much attention to something as frivolous as a student body election (not hating on anyone I swear). Thus, I thought passionate about explaining my opinions on these topics what should I from the end of that thought my comedic ingenuity instantly manifested itself. I decided what better way to get someone my age to listen to my opinions about something random than cloak it immense amounts of humor, puns, and other ridiculousness. Now, of course not Jon Stewart, nor Stephen Colbert, nor John Oliver, nor any other famous satirist, BUT I acted upon something I felt uniquely passionate about. what this script is supposed to represent, and that is what my call to action is. So, either a philosopher in the making, or I just completely what my call to action was. However, in all seriousness my intent was pure and in good faith. As a Kaushal 3 junior in college, on the verge of being a senior (yikes), developed perspective on the age group growing-up with. Expression of ideas/beliefs/thoughts/etc. are hard for us, well because are communication skills are horrendous, and more often than not we are just too afraid and conscious that everyone gives a damn about what saying/doing/eating/etc. For someone like me communication skills are exemplary, that second part that gets me sometimes. Hell, I was even self-conscious writing this script! I did it though, I wrote it, submitted it, and received universal acclaim. No, but my point is I DID IT! That is what I want to inspire in others my age, just go for it, too short to not enjoy and indulge in the (reasonable) things passionate about. This was and is my call to action. Ultimately, I hope that you actually read what I just wrote, actually watch the video that stems from the script written, and heap immense applause towards me. Also, it would be also kind of nice if you understand why and how satire can be incredibly effective when trying to inform and educate about stuff, but you know, one can only ask. a link to the video I made from this script: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ae47TNrBqDI&t=18s Kaushal 4 Adithya Kaushal TJ Murray ENC 1102 30 April 2017 The Daily Bullsh*tter Episode 1: Parking Nightmare and The Infamous Name Tag INT. CLASSROOM THAT IS BEING USED AS A The Host (me) swivels around in his chair and looks in to the camera (with his amazing charm and good-looks blinding the audience) HOST (ME) Welcome, welcome, welcome, welcome! This is The Daily Bullsh*tter, your daily dose of all the craziness going on here at USF. Which is amazing considering that the usually the only crazy thing about USF is the amount of fake pre-med students that go here. Host points in to the crowd singling out some of the people talking about (as a joke, camera also shows some brief shots of these people). Shuffles papers (like they do in all these type of shows), and then speaks to the camera again. HOST You know what fake? Taxes? No, those are definitely not real. Long walks on the beach with that special someone? Yup...wait not it. THE RIDICULOUS PARKING SITUATION THAT REARS ITS UGLY HEAD EVERY DAMN DAY HERE AT USF! I mean seriously, harder to find parking here at USF than it is for me not to get selected for when going through the TSA check line at the airport. To help bring awareness to this incredibly dire issue on campus, lets meet up with our Senior Parking Correspondent(SPC)! Kaushal 5 Shot transitions from inside the to outside in one of the parking lots of USF. The shot shows the packed USF lot with students struggling to find parking spots. EXT. USF PARKING LOT SPC Thanks Adi, as you can see hectic out here. struggling to see any spots open (shot supposed to show that SPC is short). Sadly, another year has gone by where USF has sold double the amount of permits than available student (Williams). Next series of shots/scenes are improvised by the SPC and potentially actual students (if they give their consent) about their frustrations with parking on campus (an interview-like format). However, if this work, then I along with some other friends will do these roles instead to illustrate the hilarity that is involved with parking at USF (I, along with others, are trying to highlight some the problems with infrastructure at USF). Last shot of the SPC, is him in his car, frustrated and annoyed that he find a parking spot either. SPC This is BS! you guys know who I am, I NEED A SPOT! Oh...uh I know we were still filming...um back to you Adi, this is a nightmare. From a distance, there is a shot of the SPC in his car having a meltdown. INT. CLASSROOM THAT IS BEING USED AS A HOST Kaushal 6 Wow...that was moving stuff...who knew that parking at USF was so emotionally debilitating...or maybe just our SPC. Anyways, take a quick break, be talking about something YUGE when we come back! Host (me), throws papers from the first segment in the camera and is shown talking with some people from audience. The break will show a funny/satirical ad about the emotional toll parking takes on students at USF. HOST Welcome back! If still watching...well amazing considering I have no idea what the hell doing. BUT, do you know knows what the hell they are doing? THE USF STUDENT GOVERNMENT SUPREME COURT DAMMIT! five days of deliberating, the Student Government (SG) Supreme Court unanimously found president- and vice-president-elect Moneer Kheireddine and Shaquille Kent guilty of a major grievance, thereby disqualifying the (Shine). I mean seriously, wow they really are fighting are for justice here at USF (*very sarcastic tone*). I mean, I never thought college students would be so impassioned about the law! If you know going on...then good stupid. However, if you care, listen up. Just recently, the USF Supreme Court made ruling that stated that the Student Body President- elect and Vice President-elect were guilty of some violations. I know what thinking, OMG they must have done something really really really bad. Let me answer that, OH HELL YEA THEY DID, I MEAN ONE OF THE PEOPLE CAMPAIGNING FOR THEM WAS WEARING A *BLEEPING* NAMETAG FROM HIS USF JOB OR SOME *BLEEP* LIKE THAT! I mean wow, what a major, major, major stain upon the justice and integrity of the USF Student Body Election. As a result, they were disqualified, and now we have the runner-ups in the election ready to show their clear dominance at USF (*insert image of the runner-ups Kaushal 7 Facebook message*). Here to talk about this victory and serving of justice is our Senior USF Student Body Election Correspondent (SUSBEC). Shot widens and now includes SUSBEC sitting at the desk with the host (still me). HOST Hello, hello, this is quite the controversy, it? SUSBEC kidding, right? This is ridiculous, I mean no one really cares, except all those friggin weirdos who constantly harass us to vote for them or their friends when walking to class. HOST I mean, you think this is justice being served? you think the USF Supreme Court made a good decision? SUSBEC Yea totally, not like these other college kids had more important things to do than argue about a name tag. I mean seriously, WHO THE F TAKE FIVE DAYS to argue about a name tag. I took me less time to fill out college applications than it took for these guys to argue if a name tag was a violation in this student body election. HOST Point taken, but this show that USF students do care about getting right, just like people outside of college. SUSBEC Kaushal 8 I mean how could USF students look to people outside of college to get it right. Just like the actual election in November, the person with the popular vote the person who became the President (*mic drop*). SUSBEC stares directly into the camera for this mic drop statement. HOST WOW, powerful stuff. almost as moved when I saw our SPC have a complete mental breakdown over parking. Shot condenses, and focuses on the host. HOST Well, all for this show. I hope made you understand that USF is flawless...wait no not it. USF has its problems, but that mean that we as students have to take them on. uniquely qualified and have the ability to institute change, we just have to be proactive and patient. So, get out there and make the changes we want to see! See you next time Bullsh*tters! Shot fades out with applause. A funny scene after the ending shows the host, the SPC, and the SUSBEC trying to gather people for some cause, but instead are constantly ignored or shut- down, depressed they go sign up to join USF Student Government. Kaushal 9 Works Cited Definition of  Cambridge Dictionary. University of Cambridge Press, n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Shine, Miki. SG president-elect disqualified for major  The Oracle. The University of South Florida, 12 Apr. 2017. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Williams, Breanne. Student frustration builds over campus  The Oracle. The University of South Florida, 24 Aug. 2016. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Young, Dannagal G. Lighten  Columbia Journalism Review. Columbia Journalism Review, n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017.