Nicole Trantina Trantina 1 Bob Botkin ENC 1102 2 May 2017 The Right to Universal Healthcare Coverage in The United States of America The progress towards UHC continues as each year passes by. UHC or Universal Healthcare is a system where all individuals and communities receive health service without the burden of finance (WHO). UHC is very largely known in places such as Germany, Canada, Austria and many other European countries. According to the World Health Organization or WHO, All UN (United Nations) Member States have agreed to attempt to have Universal Healthcare by the year 2030. This paper is going to explain and educate on why Universal Healthcare in the United States of America would be a practical idea for both the citizens and the government. According to the US National Library of Medicine and the National Institutes of Health Universal Healthcare Coverage is the 3 rd most talked about issue in government behind economy and Iraq(NCBI). Although Universal Healthcare Coverage is talked about as a large issue in the United States of America, nothing is really done to make it happen at a rapid pace. According to US National Library of Medicine and the National Institutes of Health or NCIB, in 2006, Mitt Romney signed a law that required all residents of the state of Massachusetts that were over the age of 18 to buy a minimum level of health insurance(NCIB). This was the closest thing to in the United States. Not only did Massachusetts become the first state to require a minimum insurance plans, but they were also the first state to require a mandate for drug coverage if you were over the age of 18(NCIB). In 2009, Obama introduced something known as the Protection and Affordable Care This Act also known as PPACA, ACA or Obamacare was signed by Obama on March 23 rd , 2010(Obamacare Facts). According to Nicole Trantina Bob Botkin ENC 1102 2 May 2017 Trantina2 Trumpcare, Obamacare was very similar to what Mitt Romney did for Massachusetts back in 2006(Trumpcare). Obamacare mandated all eligible citizens to health insurance, which allowed for a more affordable coverage across the United States of America. Obama was in office from January 20,2009 to January 20,2017. Obamacare is now in the works of becoming Trumpcare. This began when Donald Trump took office on January 20 th , 2017. According to Trumpcare, people would now be allowed to buy prescriptions drugs from overseas, which will the (Trumpcare). Trump also claims that Trumpcare will have block-granting funds for Medicaid. With block-granting funds for Medicaid, states will get a lump sum of money to spend on what they think is needed (Trumpcare). Trump also plans to remove barriers that insurance companies have so that they are allowed to sell over state lines. Removing these state barriers will allow for a rise in competition and thus driving down the cost of insurance (Trumpcare). The changes that Trump plans to make will take some time, however with these changes, there must be a plan. Obamacare and Trumpcare are the closest thing to Universal Healthcare Coverage at the moment in the United States of America. The United States is a member of United Nations (UN) which means they will have to start considering Universal Healthcare Coverage in the years to come. Universal Healthcare Coverage is something many Americans should begin to feel strongly about. Universal Healthcare would improve profit for private businesses as well as improve Americans health at a larger rate than United States healthcare right now. Private businesses Nicole Trantina Bob Botkin ENC 1102 2 May 2017 Trantina3 would then be allowed to offer specialized treatment at an affordable cost which would then boost their profits. Boosting the profits and allowing more testing to be done will allow for more crucial treatments to be done at a fraction of the cost than they are today. The Affordable Care Act and all other aspects of healthcare in the United States are costing Americans billions of dollars each year, and yet nearly 28.5 million nonelderly Americans were uninsured at the end of 2015 according to KFF.org (KFF). According to KFF, one in five uninsured adults in the year 2015 (20%) went without needed medical care due to cost being so absurd. America may love the saying, is but having bigger medical bills certainly does not make us better. In 2015, 46% of uninsured adults said the primary reason for being uninsured was because it was too expensive (KFF). Many Americans fall into the hole. The hole is a term used for the economic status below middle class, but above the poverty line. Many of the people in this area do not receive things such as food stamps, or health insurance because they are just barely getting by. Many Americans would not agree to Universal Healthcare due to the fact that they feel like they will be paying more in taxes for people who do not have to pay as much taxes because of their economic status, but they are incorrect. Taxes would be raised, but they would be raised for everyone and each person would have the same basic healthcare benefits as their next-door neighbor or brother. Looking at the healthcare system in the United States of America today, it can be seen that there is billions of dollars being spent and billions of people not being seen by doctors. The Nicole Trantina Bob Botkin ENC 1102 2 May 2017 Trantina4 citizens of the United States that are unable to afford insure and receive proper healthcare would be in better hands as well as people who can afford insurance. There are many ways to get involved. Some of these ways include talking to local governors about the issue of Universal Healthcare. Starting and signing petitions so that the topic can be brought to the attention of congressman and even the president. As a democratic country, the citizens are allowed to have a say in what they want. Get involved by helping out with free healthcare clinics that are run across the United States. Getting involved in these healthcare clinics allows for education on what is going on below the poverty line and what needs to be done to get every person the proper healthcare they deserve. With the change of a thought, the citizens of the United States of America can change the way their healthcare system is run, saving lives and helping the less fortunate to the proper treatment needed in order to get themselves back on their feet. Works Cited Amartya Sen, PhD, Thomas W. Lamont University Professor and Professor of Econonomics and Philosphy, Harvard University; Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences (1998). Harvard Public Health  Universal Health Care: The Affordable Dream Harvard Public Health Review. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 May 2017. Nicole Trantina Bob Botkin ENC 1102 2 May 2017 Trantina5 Canadian Health Care. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 May 2017. Lemieux, Scott. Americans need single payer healthcare to get universal coverage Scott  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 05 Feb. 2016. Web. 03 May 2017. obamacarefacts. Health Care Reform  Obamacare Facts. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 May 2017. Reisman, Miriam. Universal Health Care in America:: Can the Massachusetts Model Work  Pharmacy and Therapeutics. MediMedia USA, Inc., Sept. 2008. Web. 03 May 2017. Trumpcare vs Obamacare: How Does Plan  TrumpCare.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 May 2017. Universal health coverage  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 03 May 2017. 29, 2016 Sep. Key Facts about the Uninsured  The Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. N.p., 04 Oct. 2016. Web. 03 May 2017.