Tsai 1 Sharon Tsai Alison Misler ENC1102 3 May 2017 Your Shopping Matters Have you ever bought the clothes from H&M or GAP? If you answer yes, you might indirectly destroy thousands of childhoods. Due to impulse buying, people especially college students tend to buy more clothes than they actually need (Rudell 283). College students undoubtedly are H&M and GAP target customers who can not afford pricy clothes but have intention to buy a lot of them. According to recent report, apparels from big-name brands like H&M and GAP are manufactured by sweatshop factory workers and even by child laborers (Maclntyre). These poor children are forced to work in dangerous working conditions while receiving extremely low payment. Child labor has been a serious issue for decades but most college students are not familiar with it. In order to rasie the awarness of this problem and educate college students the concept of shopping with conscience which is one of the methods for them to improve the child labor issue, the University of South Florida decided to hold an event called Your Shopping on June 24. In the event, you will learn more about child labor and change your shopping habits, which not only decrease the number of child labor but also benefit you. Unfortunately, there are still around 168 million child laborers in the world and around half of them working in hazardous Child labor is defined as that deprives children of their childhood, their potential and their dignity, and that is harmful to physical and mental Professor Zarkar, the Pakistani expert in human rights issues, points out that there are five reasons why child Tsai 2 laborers are under danger: their jobs are injurious to health, are likely to lead to injuries, involve night work, have long working hours, and affect education (23). He conducted the research on the child laborers who worked in brick kiln in Pakistan. In the winter, children had to work with mud and cold water for long hours while in the summer those children were exposed to the scorching sun which made some of them dehydration and stroke (Zarkar 24). Without a doubt, it is unethical to put children in such an unsafe environment and let them work in extreme weathers. worse, most child laborers got hurt during their work but they are never taken to see a doctor. (Zarkar 24) They frequently suffer from fatigue and backache, and it was observed that one of them could not even walk properly (Zarkar 24). Therefore, the existence of child labor is intolerable and it needs to be eliminated as soon as possible. It is a well-known fact that one of the biggest contributors to global poverty is lack of access to education. Millions of child laborers are asked to work twelve to sixteen hours a day since they are six or seven years old which brings about a vicious Pay High Price for Cheap Professor Kumar found out that children in rural Bangladesh who were interrupted schooling in primary grades are more likely to participate in the labor force and never go back to school(44). Most child laborers drop out school to go to work because they want to increase the income for their families. The main reason why those parents do not make enough money is they are in lower paid occupations which normally do not require high education. When those child laborers growing up without being educated to certain extent, they would have no choice but work in lower occupations like their parents. Afterwards, their future children will be forced to work as child laborers again while deprived of the right of receiving education. If those children never get the chance to receive education, it is impossible for them and even their decensdents to escape from poverty. In order to eradicate indigence in developing countries, children are supposed to study in a safe Tsai 3 school instead of working in an unsafe factory. Child labor not only harms the children involved, it also hurts your intersests. After the Industrial Revolution, merchants have tried to massively produce everything including, garments and agricultural products and child laborers are one of the victims of this trand. Even though the products manufactured by child laborers are cheaper, the quality is relatively worse. Professor Fotoniata states that formal firms which only employ adults will tend to produce high-quality goods whereas low-quality products are normally made by informal company which employ child labor (268). As a consumer, you probably would like to buy the products with higher quality. Therefore, stopping child labor will bring a silver lining to the child laborers and gaurantee you getting higher quality products from professional manufacturers. It is obvious that the problem of child labor is harmful to both manufacturers and consumers, so the University of South Florida wants to raise the awareness of this issue by holding an event called Your Shopping On June 24, college students would be able to get the knowledge of child labors and learn how to shop conscientiously. There will be some information booths from USF students who have done some research about child labor. From them, you will know the real circumstances of child labor and get the lists of brands that you should support or boycott so that you can apply shopping with conscience in daily life. Also, USF will have a running event on the next day June 25 at USF track to raise the funding for new programs which will provide the educational resources for child laborers in developing countries.Participants of the event will get free food and gifts with fair trade certification. It is a good oppurtunity to support saving child laborers and keep healthy simultaneously.After the two events, you will be capable of exercising the right of consumer wisely and raising the voice for child laborers. Tsai 4 Child labor has deprived the careless childhood and the chance to fulfill their dreams from millions of child laborers. Every child is born equal and none of them deserve this kind of treatment. Therefore, it is important to take action to stop making it worse. You, as a consumer, have unthinkable power to bring a difference to child laborers. Professor Rudell declares, the government must regulate and legislate to ensure a level playing field, companies must be more responsive to public concerns and take responsibility for their (284). In other words, consumers have more impact on companies than governments do. Thus, so as to let college students use the power of consumer wisely, USF will hold Your Shopping Matters to provide the information. The two events will help students be more aware of child labor issue and develop correct shopping habits. Through the participation in Your Shopping Matters, you can save those child lives and keep more children from becoming child laborers. Tsai 5 Works Cited Child  International Labour Organization, www.ilo.org/global/topics/child- labour/lang--en/index.htm. Children Pay High Price for Cheap  Home UNICEF, www.unicef.org/pon95/chil0016.html. Fotoniata, Eugenia and Thomas Moutos. Product Quality, Informality, and Child  Review of Development Economics, vol. 17, no. 2, May 2013, pp. 268-283. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/rode.12031 Kumar, Alok. One More Year of Schooling or Work: Grade-Transition and Child Labor in Rural  Journal of Developing Areas, vol. 49, no. 3, Summer2015, pp. 27- 48. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1353/jda.2015.0164. Maclytyre, David. 10 Major Clothing Brands Caught in Shocking Sweatshop  TheRichest, 7 Aug. 2014, www.therichest.com/rich-list/most-shocking/10-major- clothing-brands-caught-in-shocking-sweatshop-scandals/. Rudell, Fredrica. Shopping with a Social Conscience: Consumer Attitudes Toward Sweatshop  Clothing and Textiles Research Journal. Sage Publications, vol.24, no. 4, October 2006, pp.282-296. Zakar, Muhammad Zakria, et al. Likes A Person Whose Body Is Covered With Health Hazards Faced By Child Laborers In The Brick Kiln Sector Of The Okara District,  Canadian Journal Of Behavioural Science / Revue Canadienne Des Sciences Du Comportement 47.1 (2015): 21-28. PsycARTICLES. Web. 9 Feb. 2017