Karabeyoglu 1 Nadir Karabeyoglu Professor Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 12 March 2017 15NOW: Rhetorical Appeals To Support Minimum Wage Reform 15NOW is a prominently known stakeholder in the current minimum wage debate that uses visual rhetoric to reach their goal of eradicating income inequality. 15NOW uses social media and community organization tactics to fight for an increase of the minimum wage to $15 an hour (15NOW.org). The first image used by 15NOW to support their argument is the logo (see fig.1). The logo is bright red with the words a check mark in the and an image of a young male with his fist in the air. The goal of this image is to inspire the audience to yell and make their voices heard to support the movement for $15 an hour for minimum wage. (Fig. 1 15NOW.org) (Fig. 2 15NOW Facebook.com) The second image is from official Facebook page and shows 11 people wearing 15NOW logos while standing outside of the store Target and participating in a demonstration for an increase to the minimum wage (see fig. 2). The goal of this image is to show the audience Karabeyoglu 2 that a diverse group of people is working together to advocate for an increase in the minimum wage. Both of these images from 15NOW are visual arguments that reflect the concerns that15NOW has about the urgent need for an increase of the minimum wage. The social justice organization 15NOW depicts the urgent need for the American public to participate in the minimum wage reform by using two visual arguments that employ four rhetorical appeals. 15NOW was founded in 2014 and their mission is to empower working people to fight for $15 an hour minimum wage (15NOW.org.). 15NOW uses their social media presence to show demonstrations that rally workers to demand an increase of the minimum wage (15NOW.org.). The demonstrations utilize famous red logo, which is an example of visual rhetoric. Their logo seeks to appeal to the American value of equality and show that 15NOW is trying to raise awareness about their cause and alert the public about income inequality (15NOW.org.). The organization 15NOW is based on the belief that 1% of the population dominates the economic power and fighting to increase the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour is a way to challenge the unequal wealth distribution in the United States (15NOW.org). The method 15NOW uses to spread their message is their logo and photos on their official Facebook page. These visual arguments send a powerful message to their audience that the need to advocate for their goal of increasing the minimum wage is urgent and an equality issue to help poor Americans. visual arguments depict the urgent need for the American public to participate in the minimum wage reform. The first image, logo, uses elements of kairos and appeals to the timeliness of the issue by showing a man yelling with his fist in the air that suggests this issue is important. The image also makes a visual argument that the change must happen immediately through the use of The use of red also suggests urgency and the website is included with the Karabeyoglu 3 checkmark which tells the audience to visit the website and vote on this issue. Timeliness is inherent in this message since matters that can be voted on have a limited time frame. Elements of kairos can be seen in the second image since the people in the picture are standing outside of a Target store which conveys this is impacting well-known businesses and could happen at your local Target on any particular day. This image shows how widespread income inequality is and makes the audience realize that this issue is not just about fast-food workers, but minimum wage workers in all industries. Figures 1 and 2 both show how powerful the use of pathos is when creating a visual argument. For instance, the first image is showing a man with his fist in the air and his mouth open yelling and encourages the audience to feel passionately about the issue. The visual argument encourages the audience to yell and make their voices heard to support the movement for $15 an hour for minimum wage. The use of red evokes emotion because it is a warm color that people associate with love and blood, which makes the reader feel passionately about the issue. Elements of pathos are also seen in Figure 2 through the use of a mother with her young baby. This appeals to the emotions that a mother needs to earn a living wage to support her child. Sara Giskin, a columnist of Temple online newspaper and Philadelphia chapter15NOW member states women are over-represented in low-wage work and believes a raise in the minimum wage is an equality issue (Giskin). Also, the second image evokes empathy since it shows people standing together on this issue and it is not a problem that only impacts a small group of people. These elements of pathos are utilized to make the audience feel the urgency of this movement for social justice and gender equality. Ethos is another important rhetorical appeal that appeals to credibility or morality. Credibility is conveyed in the first image by showing a mouth being open since he is Karabeyoglu 4 justifiably outraged or angered at the economic injustice of the current minimum wage. The design elements that convey credibility are shown through the design of the first image. The purpose of the design is to create a simple but straightforward message that makes an impact and convinces the audience their message is credible. For instance, the use of red links this image to Communism, which makes the argument more credible since the color red, and Communism are forever synonymous with one another. Because 15NOW advocates for rights and equality the audience can see that 15NOW is linking themselves with aspects of Communism. While America is not a Communist country, 15NOW has been deemed credible and has made significant strides in spreading awareness about their cause. For instance, in Minneapolis, over 68% of residents have asserted their support for a $15 minimum wage ordinance and believe this is a fight that workers can win (Miller). 15NOW could not garner this type of support without a strong visual argument that conveys credibility. Ethos is apparent in the second image because the audience can see it is an actual photo of real people demonstrating together and shows how different people came together with a unified message. The photo is not staged and is authentic with some people not looking directly at the camera. This conveys credibility to the audience because the people are not posing, look genuinely happy to be together spreading their message and have spontaneously grouped for a picture. The use of ethos in both images demonstrates that people are unified behind the 15NOW logo. Both of the images make a visual argument by using logos. For instance, both images claim the minimum wage should be $15 an hour. The reason for the change in minimum wage is this would create more equality for working Americans, which is an American value. Their evidence is using an image of a man yelling to be heard in the first image as well as real people standing outside of a Target and participating in a demonstration in the second image. Elements Karabeyoglu 5 of logos are seen in Figure 2 because the image shows people of varying ages and races working together to advocate for an increase in the minimum wage. This is an appeal to the logic that this issue impacts a diverse group of working Americans. The image is trying to accomplish the goal of spreading awareness that wages are insufficient and to encourage the audience to support an increase to the minimum wage. In conclusion, 15NOW conveys the urgency of their goals and mission through the use of rhetorical appeals in two images, which represent their visual argument. Elements of kairos, pathos, ethos, and logos are used in the images shown above to inform their audience that 15NOW is a powerful social justice movement that is more than money; it is a message of equality for American workers across the United States. These images are simple but powerful and implore their audience to hear their message. Karabeyoglu 6 Works Cited 15  15 Now. N.p., 2017. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. 15NOW.org 15NOW Official Facebook Page. Facebook.com. 8 Mar. 2015. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Retrieved from https://www.facebook.com/15now/photos/a.741258732568748.1073741828.7197486380 53091/994861913875094/?type=3&theater Giskin, Sarah. NOW campaign fights to raise minimum  The Temple News. N.p., 25 Aug. 2014. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Retrieved from http://temple-news.com/opinion/giskin-15-now-campaign-fights-raise-minimum-wage/ Miller, Sara Nicole. With new coalition, Minneapolis Fight for $15 grows into unstoppable  Twin Cities Daily Planet. N.p., 09 Oct. 2016. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Retrieved from https://www.tcdailyplanet.net/with-new-coalition-minneapolis-fight-for-15-grows-into- unstoppable-movement/