Behan 1 Nathan Behan Professor Staiger Composition II 30 April 2017 How Electric Vehicles Will Save the World With the automotive industry growing as fast as it is, there has to be a solution for carbon dioxide emissions as well as for the dwindling oil reserves. population is still growing, and these people need vehicles as a means of transportation. These two problems seem to go hand in hand, however there is a solution. Electric Vehicles are becoming more and more popular as of recent years as well as more technologically advanced. Since most people believe that they cannot make a difference by buying an electric vehicle, it reduces five metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions per year (DeLuchi). This is only for one household vehicle, and that is a huge difference. By showing people statistics and technological advances, electric vehicles will become more popular and internal combustion vehicles less. The statistics for electric vehicles involving emissions and environmental changes are in their favor. Since electric vehicles have zero carbon dioxide emissions, they are a clear benefit to the environment when compared to traditional vehicles. By cutting out emissions caused by internal combustion vehicles, there can be 9.8 gigatons less of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere yearly (DeLuchi). Sales of electric vehicles are thirty six times higher than they were in 2012, therefore more models are on the market and more people are starting to see the benefits of an electric vehicle (Barkenbus 55). Behan 2 Not only are electric cars better for the environment, they are also cheaper to own and maintain due to advances in technology. New tech allows for higher efficiency as well as cheaper and shorter recharging. Larger and more efficient batteries have nearly the same range as traditional vehicles currently, as well as an incredibly cheaper cost to recharge. $2.50 compared to $35 is a huge difference in cost for average commuters paying for gas every week or so (Melhorn). Also, since more affordable midsize cars and are available, families and people who need larger vehicles now have the opportunity to own an electric vehicle. Also, both younger and older people are beginning to realize the environmental effect internal combustion vehicles have, leading to a general trend of switching to hybrid and purely electric vehicles. In order to help the growth of better alternative vehicles, there should be more effort in spreading the word of the advancements and advantages electric cars have. There should also be more tax breaks and financial help from the government to help incent more people to save money by purchasing hybrid and electric vehicles. Specifically for students at the University of South Florida, on-campus campaigning and advertisements should be used for not only electric vehicles but also environmental issues. This leads to people becoming more environmentally aware, leading to more electric and hybrid purchases. Other than advertisements, there should be local student discounts for car dealerships selling hybrid and electric vehicles in order to promote a cleaner future of drivers. Even hybrid vehicles utilizing both electric motors as well as low emission, eco-friendly internal combustion engines. Some of these hybrid vehicles can achieve around eighty to one hundred miles to the gallon, therefore saving both money and gas Hybrid vehicles are increasingly coming closer and closer to reaching the prices of their traditional counterparts; the average hybrid car is roughly $35,000 MSRP in 2016. Behan 3 Astonishingly, the average price of used electric cars are even lower than traditional averages, at $14,000. This is due to the federal tax credit that original owners receive when they purchase a new electric car, which allows them to sell for almost half the price originally purchased with only 30% of the original money lost. Average upkeep for electric cars both new and used are $600 and $1,100 respectively (Melhorn 770). With the World changing as fast as it is today, automobiles are the next big thing in our lifetimes. With the advances in technology allowing farther ranges as well as more efficient batteries, these electric vehicles are better than ever and are becoming the internal combustion car killer that they need to be. Kevin Maney, author of an article on Tesla for Newsweek, stated that Tesla as well as other electric car companies will soon be the norm. Electric utilities will become a shrinking provider of last resort, like the U.S. Postal Service or telephone company landlines. Some people will drive gas-powered cars, but doing so will become about as unwelcome as riding a turd-dropping horse down New York Fifth Avenue. Gas cars will also get less convenient as gas stations one by one go out of business or convert to charging stations for electric cars. Oil will still be needed for things like plastics and jet fuel, although advances in virtual reality might make business travel almost unnecessary, severely cutting demand for airlines. As demand for oil drops and prices plunge further, drilling new wells will become bad business. Before long, the amount of carbon chugging into the air should drop dramatically. (Maney) Both cheaper maintenance as well as lower MSRP and cheaper recharging factor into the now more welcoming allure of electric cars. With the new technology and new statistics involving the Behan 4 environment, people will start focusing on electric vehicles more and more once the word is spread. Behan 5 Works Cited BARKENBUS, JACK. Electric Vehicles Climate Saviors, or  in Science & vol. 33, no. 2, 2017, pp. 55-59. DeLuchi, Mark, et al. Vehicles : Performance, Life-Cycle Costs, Emissions, and Recharging Berkeley : University of California Transportation Center, 1989. Electric Vehicles. : Likely Consequences of U.S. And Other Programs and Policies : Report to the Chairman, Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, House of Washington, D.C. (441 G St., NW, Rm. LM, Washington 20548) : U.S. General Accounting Office, 1994. Maney, Kevin. How Elon Musk Is Using Tesla to Kill Big Oil; Tesla Cars Will Be a Part of a Sustainable Electric System: The Solar Panels, the Batteries, and the Software to Manage Power and Trade It over  no. 9, 2016. Melhorn, Alexander C., et al. Autonomous Plug and Play Electric Vehicle Charging Scenarios Including Reactive Power Provision: A Probabilistic Load Flow  Generation, Transmission & vol. 11, no. 3, 15 Feb. 2017, pp. 768-775.