Rayfield 1 Brittney Rayfield Ms. Lay Comp II 22 February 2017 Pictures for Persuasion The National Collegiate Athletic Association has banned a lot of substances that college athletes are not allowed to use. The goals are to give student athletes better education, give them the best athletic experience, and to give the public a greater understanding of what student-athletes go through every day. Advertisements reach these goals by using the rhetorical appeals; logos, ethos, and pathos, the NCAA has used two images that encourages athletes to turn away from drugs. Logos is an appeal of logic and a way to persuade the reader by reason. In the cartoon image, it shows a character turning away from drugs. This character is dressed as an athlete and seems to be in shape by the way the artist created her; obviously she is an athlete. It is quite logical that she turns away from the smoking and drinking because they do tear your body down and she needs to stay in shape. The drugs showed in the picture are actually legal. Cigarettes and alcohol are not banned by NCAA but the character is still turning away from them because they are bad for the body. If there were illegal drugs in the image, it would be obvious that the justification would be the same: turning away. The font on the protein powder looks like a like something that is on prison The word printed is, which makes the audience ask if the substance shown is on the illegal substance list. The powder is supposed to trick the audience because some would think it looks like cocaine but athletes would notice the scooper that comes in protein powders. Some athletes use protein every day for many Rayfield 2 reasons such as building muscle mass, gaining weight, or sometimes losing weight if that is all they eat or drink. Ethos is a way the to show credibility to the audience. Connect each topic sentence back to the thesis. In the REC image, there are many ways to give credibility. The Resource Exchange Center is credited in the picture by having their logo on it. It also gives creditability to drugfreesports by putting their website on the picture. By putting name on the image, it shows that the NCAA is involved with these other organizations. Giving credibility is a good way to persuade the reader to read more into the advertisement. Pathos is a way to communicate with the audience through emotions. In the cartoon image, the athlete shows a look of disgust on her face and has her hand up towards the substances with her head turned away as to say she will not give into drugs and alcohol. Some athletes do not agree with the NCAA banned list but most athletes obey the rules and stay away from the banned substances. Some athletes would want to use some of the banned substances to enhance their performance but there are other ways to enhance their bodies and performances that are not banned. The NCAA encourages athletes to stay away from drugs and alcohol and prohibits many substances. By using the rhetorical appeals: ethos, logos, and pathos, the author persuades the audience towards their side of the argument. Rayfield 3 Works Cited NCAA. NCAA LIST OF BANNED  Www.ncaa.org. NCAA, n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. NCAA.  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. NCAA, n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Vcortez. Picture of  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. NCAA, 29 Apr. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Rayfield 4