Patel 1 Krishna Patel Dr. Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 05/07/2017 positive impact on the U.S. labor market. Today, it can be said that the United States is a haven for immigrants. Historically, from 1860 to 1920, a total of nearly 30 million foreigners arrived in the United States. The amount of American immigrants has fluctuated over the course of the last century, due to political and economic circumstances. These immigrants come with different motives: for better labor market prospects (Cadena 910), unification of their families, and better lifestyles and job opportunities. Other immigrants are refugees suffering from persecution, civil wars, natural disaster, and economic inequalities in their home country, and are in quest for freedom, better economic fortunes, protection, and benefits (West 427). As a result, this vast immigration has affected the U.S. economy, population, business, culture, politics, and many other aspects in both positive and negative ways. Scholars have looked at how immigration has impacted the U.S. labor market. Taking this into account, it can be argued that immigrants indeed positively impact the U.S. labor market. According to a survey for the economic effect of immigrants, it was found that immigrant workers and Native-born workers generally complement each other rather than compete for the same job. Because immigrants tend to have different skill sets and therefore seek different types Patel 2 of jobs. For example, less educated immigrants often lack the linguistic skills and therefore take jobs in manual labor-intensive occupations such as agriculture and construction. Whereas, low-skilled native-born workers take advantage of their superior communication abilities and shift into occupations where these skills are more valuable, such as personal services and sales. Similarly, in many cases highly educated immigrants face a disadvantage in communication-intensive jobs, and therefore tend to work in scientific and technical occupations.Whereas, highly skilled natives get a promotion because of their communication skill, in fields like management, media, and other culture- and language-dependent jobs (Kugler and Oakford). According to West, percent believe that immigrants take jobs away from native-born workers. However, 86 percent believe that immigrants are hard Infact, immigrants are not competing with native workers, rather they are complementing them. Likewise, another existing study concludes that the rise in immigration between 1990 and 2006, which increased labor-force participation, also increased the earnings of U.S. workers by approximately 0.6 percent. Another reason that immigrants do not have any negative effect on the U.S. labor market is that many immigrants create their jobs by starting their own business. In fact, according to the 2011 Current Population Survey it was known that 7.5 percent of the foreign-born population was self-employed. Thus, it can expected that under S. 744, between 600,000 and 840,000 of the newly legalized immigrants will be self-employed (Kugler and Oakford) . Moreover, foreign founders launched 25.3 % of businesses in America. And, according to the polling data of the impression on immigration, it was found that percent think immigrants create jobs and set up new (West 432). Thus, according to Patel 3 these studies, the rate of unemployment can be decreased and therefore, there will be a great positive effect of immigration on the U.S. labor market. can be assumed that immigrants will spend their increased earnings throughout the economy on things such as homes, cars, and clothing. This increase in consumption means that business will be better off and will lead to higher earnings for American workers (Kugler and Oakford). Also, most of the immigrants come to the U.S. in their youth working period, when they are paying taxes, spending more time at work, and not drawing extensively on public pension. As a result, the U.S. labor market will show a appreciable growth in future (West 435). In support of above evidences, Hanson discusses similar idea in his article and Economic which the majority of highly educated women are married to highly educated men; and for both to work outside the home often requires hiring outside labor to care for children, to clean the home, to launder clothes, and to tend to the yard. According to study of impact on U.S. cities, low-skilled immigrants have lower prices for dry cleaning, child care, house cleaning, yard care, and other labor-intensive services. Lower prices for these services translate into more hours spent at work for high-skilled workers. Raising the effective supply of high skilled labor, indirectly contributes to the productivity growth of the low-skilled immigration. In Contrast, there are scholars who argues that immigration causes the U.S. labor market to suffer because of various reasons. A recent study by Steven A. Camarota, indicates that immigration does reduce the labor market prospects of natives, primarily those with few years of schooling. These low-skilled immigrants take any job at low wages. Because of this fact, many Patel 4 employers offer jobs to immigrants, and as a result, native workers struggle to be employed. Thus, these studies conclude that immigration does not have a significant positive impact on the U.S. labor market. However, the contradictory studies have been proven wrong in some cases, and most empirical studies indicate that immigration has caused both massive positive effects and minor negative effects in the US labor market. Altogether, the research sources utilized concludes that immigration vitally promotes, strengthens, and stabilizes the labor market and will continue to do so. Patel 5 Work Cited Cadena, Brian C. Competition And Low-Skilled Immigration of Human vol. 48, no. 4, 2013, pp. 910-944. Gordon H. And Economic vol. 32, no. 1, 2012, pp. 25-34. Kugler, Adriana, and Patrick Oakford. Immigration Helps American Wages and Job  29 Aug. 2013, www.americanprogress.org/issues/immigration/news/2013/08/29/73203/immigration-hel ps-american-workers-wages-and-job-opportunities/. Accessed 10 Apr. 2017. Steven A. Camarota. The Labor Market Impact of Immigration: A Review of Recent  May 1998, cis.org/articles/1998/back198.html. Accessed Apr. 2017. West, Darrell M. Costs And Benefits Of Science vol. 126, no. 3, 2011, pp. 427-443.