Saleh 1 Cover Letter My metanarrative presentation in class was a dramatization done with another student, Maddie Huss, concerning the cons of abortion. My goal was to present to the audience that abortion moral and we condone nor do it ourselves. I came up with the idea to pretend to have an abortion myself by realizing that a first-hand experience was the best way to explain something. Granted, I have not had an abortion but playing the role of someone who did so made it easy to explain some of the realities that come with it. I used this dramatization to say that I took life away, there were so many contraceptives I could have used to not get pregnant in the first place and that no excuse I had was worth taking away precious life. I also included the potential Maddie had. I explained how she could have been a lawyer, a judge, a police officer or even our next president had I not taken her life away. In the very beginning of the presentation Maddie left the room as I said that I had gotten an abortion to represent that everyone else in the class parents gotten abortions, which is why they were lucky enough to be alive that day, but as for Maddie, she so fortunate. That segment in particular was actually on the example in my paper. Having Maddie leave the room made my point in lightning speed! It was so effective because it I used a classmate, the classroom actually watched Maddie leave the room and because this was a practical example. It was important to be simplistic by saying things like would have been in your class to really drive home the message that abortion was the root to inexcusable and completely avoidable death. Saleh 2 On my conclusion T.J. you told me to give specific petitions and judges to speak to, I chose to leave it vague on purpose because I want to imagine that my reader is from any where in the country. I just want people from Tampa reading this; I would want to assume that people from other states have their own petitions and marches to participate in and I, the writer, encourage them to join marches nationwide even if I just heard about them since I live in another state then them. Miriam Saleh ENC1102 14 April 2017 T.J. Murray Abortion yes it is murdering. Me, you and everyone else who exists today have one thing in common: our parents decided to keep us. Although our differences may be many the one undeniable correlation we have is that our parents get an abortion because they saw we were valuable. We can use excuses and justifications for many of our actions, but using excuses for abortion are not humane. First off, abortion is murder and there is scientific evidence to explain this. There are a myriad of contraception options out there, which makes it the fault for not taking precautionary measures. Lastly, use the golden rule for this as we do for everything else. unto as you would like them do to stands ground here. You want your own parents having an abortion with you, therefore you have it with your own pregnancy. In fact, there needs to be an end to all abortions mandated by the government. Saleh 3 To begin, abortion is murder. Once a woman is pregnant she is now with child. Being two weeks in the womb or being eight months in the womb does not change the fact that there is a person within her. The fetus has a heartbeat, developing organs and can still sense going around him or her The fetus has one half of the DNA and one half of the no different or less than any of us today. Just because the child has not left the womb before nine months does not make him or her any less of a human than any of us. D.G. Jones in In vitro fertilization describes such an act as the of (Jones 164) Jones is explaining here that destructing something our own pure humanity made is immoral. He is essentially asking how can we destroy something so beautiful, full of life and potential, especially if it is our own? We all get sad when our dog dies or if we see a dead bird on the side of the road, how is then that perfectly okay with taking away the life of our own life form? Logically speaking if we were all once embryos and our embryos had been destructed, we would have no life. You are literally taking away life. Jones went on to explain the is lost where although the embryo have a life to experience we are still impacting society negatively by taking away one of future contributors. Having an abortion means taking away a valuable part of society for your own selfish reasons; society deserve murder. To continue, we are provided a myriad of contraceptive methods so an unplanned pregnancy is essentially the responsibility. In the following photo we have the many ways to practice safe sex. Some are more effective than others but simply doing multiple of these will guarantee that the woman get pregnant. Besides, one can Saleh 4 always see their doctor to decide what the best option is for her. (Family Planning) Lastly, abortion should still abide by the golden rule. Do to someone else, as like him or her to do to you. In all things we do we have to have a moral compass; let me remind you just because the government does something mean moral. In fact, in The Constitutional Right Not to Kill Rienzi enlists abortion as one of the many ways the government sanctions murder. This list includes but is not limited to military defense, assisted suicide, and self-defense of others. (Rienzi 170) This article continued to explain how we can all make the conscious decision to say people deserve these ways to die. Someone in military defense deserve to die because he or she is a selfless human being who can do more good towards the world after coming back home. Someone experiencing suicidal thoughts deserve toxic people assisting him or her; they can seek professional help because their lives are valuable. Someone with a Saleh 5 capital punishment deserve to die in this manner because more often than not, these situations are complete misunderstandings where people act irrationally for no substantial reason. Just like an unborn fetus, many of these people are defenseless. They are perfectly innocent and deserve the right to live. In conclusion, abortion is completely immoral. It is flat out murder. It can be avoided given numerous options of contraception and the advise from a physician. And it is taking away someone right to live. We are all given the right of a beautiful life; neither you nor anyone else deserves the right to have that life taken away before it even starts. all stand up for pro-life. We all know it is wrong but we use excuses like money or timing to get away with taking away life. Next time you see someone considering an abortion, tell this person the truth. There is no need to be aggressive in doing it, just be completely honest about how wrong it is. You can even start attending pro-life marches in your area, signing petitions that come along or speaking in front of a judge when the opportunity arises itself. With all of our combined efforts the government can hear our voice and put an end to abortions. Anything you can do to prevent murder will be the most fulfilling thing you can possibly do. Work Cited Rienzi, Mark L. The Constitutional Right Not to  Emory Law Journal, vol. 62, no. 1, Sept. 2012, pp. 121-178. EBSCOhost, Jones, D G. In vitro fertilization and the destruction of  Perspectives on science and Christian faith 67.3 (2015):163-174. Web. Saleh 6 Family Planning. N.p., 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. http://www.familyplanning.org.nz/media/153556/feature-effectiveness-april-2014.jpg