Palacios 1 Daniel Palacios Professor Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 Sec.075 19 March 2017 Take on Nature Conservation The conservation of our environments and wild species is an issue that has been long discussed in the past 100 years. The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) is the largest organization that focuses on the preservation of the environment and the conservation of endangered species. The organization was founded in 1961, it was first named the Wildlife and the sole purpose of it was to act as an fundraising organization to work in collaboration with existing conservation groups and bring substantial financial support to the conservation movement on a worldwide (WWF). While they still act as an international fundraising organization that helps smaller, more specific foundations, their primary goal is to conserve all aspects of the environment and help reduce human carbon footprint from the environment by focusing on the real problem, the people. They are what is causing all this harm to nature and animals and therefore, the advertisements that the WWF puts out targets men and women of all ages and of all socioeconomic statuses; they want to make it clear that we are the cause of the problem and there should be immediate change. In both advertisements by WWF, through the use of following rhetorical appeals: ethos, pathos, logos and Kairos, they are trying to persuade the viewer not only to donate to their cause, but also to help in the conservation of the environment. While the two images are from the same organization, they have different meanings. The first advertisement is targeting male and women from any ethnic background that consume fish. Palacios 2 It asks for the viewer to be more than just and adds statistics in an attempt to grab your attention and ultimately asks you to make a change for the environment by choosing sustainable fish. They reinforce this idea by adding bold letters. The second advertisement is intended for a broader audience compared to that of the first advertisement. It is targeting men and women from all ethnic backgrounds that are familiar with emergency vehicles. The image is showing the ambulance on the side of the road while there is a car accident in the background. It is warning people that global warming is happening now and we need to do something to stop it. As defined by McKee and McIntyre, ethos is method of persuasion in which the writer attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (27). In the first advertisement, there is a fact that states of fish is caught by mistake and discarded either dead or This statistic adds the credibility of the advertisement which aids in persuading the audience to change their ways and opt for a more sustainable alternative. Furthermore, adding the logo on the bottom right corner with a website where the viewer can go and learn more about the project further adds a sense of credibility. In the second advertisement, the only item that makes the ad somewhat credible is the logo of the organization on the corner. In placing the car accident on the side of the road the advertisement is able to connect with the viewer in depicting how important it is to move quickly and help resolve the matter before it gets more out of hand. Logos is the appeal to logic; it is also the and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and reasons (Lane, McKee, McIntyre 32). The fact in the first advertisement is true, and seeing the fish alone in the ocean makes the audience think about what is happening and how we have changed our planet. The audience can visually connect the text in the image to the sad lonely fish since there is no other living creature around him which the Palacios 3 audience can logically connect to humans killing our environment. Having this unknown sea animal by itself might even hint at an idea of extinction. In the second advertisement, the crew waiting on the side of the road and waiting for the guy to finish his business makes the viewer think about what is happening in the car accident and think about what could happen if the ambulance would have been there as soon as possible. Much like what is happening with our environment, what could have happened if we started changing our ways before. As stated in Rhetoric Really Matters, pathos is rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the argument through (Lee, McKee, McIntyre 37). In the first advertisement, the big word that is in the middle of the advertisement is meant to emit a sense of emotion. It is meant to not only capture the attention but also to help them connect the profound issue with their day to day habits and thus encourages them to change their habits. It also is connected to the face of the animal to the left of that word which also seems sad. The use of the color blue, black and grey throughout the image, as stated by Professor Dr. Helen H. Epps, negative emotions for the color blue were sadness, depression, and (399). This further explains how the advertisement is trying to induce guilt into the viewer so that donate to the cause and ultimately help to change our failing ecosystems and endangered species. In the second advertisement, there is more of a feeling of surprise or shock. The first thing that the viewer grasps is the car accident on the back and then the ambulance crew on the side of the road is taking their time as if it was not an emergency. It makes the viewer realize that global warming is happening now and that we need to act now or it is going to be too late. In placing the car accident on the side of the road the advertisement is able to connect with the viewer in depicting how important it is to move quickly and help resolve the matter before it gets more out of hand. Palacios 4 Kairos as stated by Hoffman and Sawchyn in Rhetoric Really Matters an appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write or say the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (41). On the first advertisement, there is not really a sense of urgency at first glance while in the second advertisement it is very noticeable. The fish alone in the middle of the advertisement gives the feeling of urgency since there is only one fish and logically there should be a ton of fish in the sea. The ambulance with the sirens on gives the audience the sense of urgency and seeing the crew sitting on the side of the road makes it feel more urgent. There is also text on the bottom of the image that reads afford to be slow in an The WWF relies heavily in the use of Kairos to make their audiences feel the need of urgency these situations need. It is something that needs to be fixed immediately and with just donations from the audience, the organization feels that is has raised awareness and done the job it was intended to do. While the two advertisements do a very good job informing the viewers and connecting with them through the four different rhetorical appeals, there are also logical fallacies in both of these advertisements by the WWF. In the first advertisement, there is argument by emotive language since the fish is not actually sad, that is just how he looks and is also connected to the world in the middle of the picture. There is also false cause in both advertisements; just because we see one of the ambulance crew members urinating on the side of the road does not mean they stopped specifically for that reason. On the first advertisement, there is false cause, just because the fish were caught a certain way, does not mean they were dead or dying for that reason. There is also false dilemma in the first advertisement since it is assumed that it is sad to see our ecosystems deteriorating, when not everyone will feel this way. Palacios 5 To conclude, the World Wide Fund for Nature is one of the most influential organizations that focuses on the conservation of the environment and endangered species. The advertisements produced by the WWF, they hope to grab the attention of the intended audience with the use of the four different rhetorical appeals: ethos, logos, pathos and Kairos. Palacios 6 Palacios 7 Works Cited About Us . World Wildlife Fund. N.p., 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Epps, Helen H. Relationship Between Color And Emotion: A Study Of College . College Student Journal (2017): 396-405. Print. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text.