Ferguson 1 Nate Ferguson Professor Lay ENC 1102 30 April, 2017 The Importance of Funding Football Concussion Research Concussion rates have double within the decade (CNN. Cable News Network,2016). Among all sports, 47% of concussions are caused during a game of football. A concussion is a head injury that happens when you take a blow to the head area, causing your brain to alter some functions at a different rate. Repeated head traumas can result in chronic traumatic encephalopathy also know as (CTE) which is a degenerative disease in the brain that eats it away. At least one player receives a concussion from every American football game that is being played (Dave, 2016) The need for safer football helmets has never been more important. Funding for the development of better football helmet technology is essential to decreases the amount of concussions that football players receive. are supposed to be tough. You are supposed to play through pain. You are not supposed to cry. We are taught that early on in the game as kids. Tough sport. Brutal sport. like the gladiator. People want to see the big hits. They wind up on Sports Center. And as a player, you want to admit you are (Eric Dickerson). This quote is exactly what goes through a mind when they are on the field. A lot of players risk their life by staying on the field hurt, just so they can look tough to the crowd or coaches. Leaving a concussion untreated is one of the most dangerous things a football Ferguson 2 player could do. Kevin Turner was a worldwide known running back that played for the Eagles in the Later on in his life, he was diagnosed with most advanced stage of CTE, a disease which is associated with repeated head trauma. Former Browns Wide Receiver, Josh Cribs, tells a story about how a guy on the other team knocked him down and he returned to his feet in a daze. When he came to the sideline, Cribs knew he could possibly have a concussion. The staff then started to question, him asking him questions like are you guys playing If he named the wrong team, the doctors and staff would ask more questions and do more tests. Sometimes, this method for trying to see if a player has a concussion is not very accurate. Some times their concussion goes unnoticed and the player released right back on the field. This is dangerous for the athlete because they may have brain trauma that can get worse if they continue to play. Will Smith stars in a movie called Concussions. This movie exposes the dangers of concussions from a perspective. The best to prevent concussions to further develop better football helmets that protect a head. Doing this would prevent football players experiencing life-threating injuries to their brain. Some simulations and test that doctors are doing to make the game safer is getting better technology and making the helmets that they use fit better. They are making sensors that go inside helmets to track the impact of the hit each player receives. When the hits come back to the doctors from the sensors, the doctor can then tell whether or not if the player can return back to the field for play. Dave Berry said that he could see a future in but its not right around the corner, its going to take time. If they do decided to make this move then this will require a lot of changes to the rules of the game football. This will make people get the idea of even leading with your head out of the picture. Ferguson 3 Concussions are very harmful in many ways. They happen to players of all type of ages and all level of play. The best way to prevent concussions is to further develop football helmets to be safer and not so dangerous. If they make the helmets that they wear more safe and comfortable then this will prevent future brain injury. Another adjustment that needs to be done is for companies who make helmets, should be sponsored by outsiders and other people who have interest in the dangers of concussions. If people sponsor the companies who make the helmets would have better research and results. The more people put time and effort behind the research the better the game will be played. You cant expect to see tremendous outcomes when you put in the time and energy into it. I use to always hear my people say you get what you pay for, so if you pay for cheap research and little time on it your going to get those same types of results. But if you have a whole community behind you and helping you pay for the research and things like that, you will get way better results and more accurate studies. Ferguson 4 Work Cited Bry, Dave. American Football Is Too Dangerous, and It Should Be Abolished Dave The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 04 Jan. 2016. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2016/jan/04/american-football-is- too-dangerous-and-it-should-be-abolished Concussion Facts Sports Concussion  Concussion Facts Sports Concussion Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Mar. 2017. <http://concussiontreatment.com/concussionfacts.html>. NFL Concussions Fast  CNN. Cable News Network, 01 Aug. 2016. Web. 28 Mar. 2017. <http://www.cnn.com/2013/08/30/us/nfl-concussions-fast-facts/>. Quotes from Players and  Stone Phillips Reports. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <http://www.stonephillipsreports.com/2012/01/quotes-from-players-and- experts/>.