Lanier 1 Shamond Lanier Professor Aranda ENC 1102 Exercise Daily Every day millions of Americans spend more time eating and sitting than being active. More than one-third of adults in the United States are obese (cdc.gov/obesity). Becoming overweight has become a common narrative in America. Often times, people find excuses to not exercise and eat healthy. Obesity is a harmful condition that leads to heart diseases, diabetes and certain types of cancer. What many Americans do not know is that being obese actually costs more money regarding medical bills. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), estimated annual medical cost of obesity in the U.S. was $147 billion in 2008 and the medical costs for people who were obese were $1,429 higher than those of normal (cdc.gov). In an effort to lower the increasing rates of obesity among both young and old Americans, the University of South Florida is sponsoring 60 minute challenge in order to get people moving during the week. This challenge will help people get motivated to exercise daily and lose weight. Obesity has become a nationwide issue because of the constant promotion of fast food restaurants and unhealthy eating. Overweight and obesity are caused when there is not a balance between food eaten and energy expenditure. According to the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK), body needs a certain amount of energy (calories) from food to keep up basic life functions. Body weight tends to remain the same when the number of calories eaten equals the number of calories the body uses or Over time, when people eat and drink more calories than they burn, the energy balance tips toward weight gain, Lanier 2 overweight, and (niddk.nih.gov). Due to the United emphasis on fast food restaurants such as Burger King, and people have begun to eat more calories than necessary to a nutritional diet. Foods like burgers, tacos, fries, and pizza have begun to dominate lives. Obesity is also often caused by comfort eating habits, a rise in diets with high sugar consumption, and sometimes a lack of a basic understanding of nutrition. The harm of being overweight and obese may lead to lasting effects on your health and a struggle against losing weight. Obesity is a condition that can be solved with hard work and determination. It is not an easy road and there are no shortcuts around it, but staying focused long enough brings plenty of benefits. According to the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, than 5% of adults participate in 30 minutes of physical activity each day, and only one in three adults receive the recommended amount of physical activity each (fitness.gov). Daily exercise should be an integral part of lives. Simply walking around your neighborhood with a pet, riding a bike to the nearby store, or jogging with a friend are all ways to get the correct amounts of daily physical activity. Due to a lack of movement in this new age of technology, adults and kids are more attached to screens than the outside air. WebMD says, to a recent study by the Kaiser Family Foundation, over the past five years, kids aged 8 to 18 have increased the amount of time they spend plugged into media by 1 hour and 17 minutes a day, up from 6 hours and 21 minutes to 7 hours and 38 (webmd.com/parenting). Educating people about daily exercise, hydration, and nutrition is important in order for everyone to live a healthy lifestyle. Earning a healthy body begins with planning out your exercises and setting goals. A large part of exercising also begins with staying hydrated. When exercising, drinking the correct fluids can be an essential part to success. Drinking water works well replacing the water lost when Lanier 3 sweating. Sports drinks such as Gatorade replenish plenty of electrolytes and carbohydrates lost during intense workouts. Trying to exercise with friends and get others involved is a great way to stay motivated. Sometimes when your friends are not available or if you are new to using certain activities, trainers can come in handy with support. Trainers can help you find exercises that work best for you and help you set and complete goals. Often times people who lose weight end up gaining it back and have a hard time managing their bodies. To manage weight after it is lost: continue eating healthy meals, watch what you buy, and most importantly stay active. Continue staying fit long after you reach your goals so your weight does not return. The University of South Florida is also sponsoring 60 minute challenge. This may seem strange because Gatorade is a sugary drink, but Gatorade is great for those who exercise for long periods of time and Gatorade has been a supporter of exercise everywhere. This challenge is an effort to get people moving in their daily lives for at least 60 minutes every day. Joining a community and exercising is one of the common goals USF and Gatorade both have. Anyone who participates in this challenge should post their activity on social media by tagging their picture with #G60. Exercise should be important to everyone and doing it every day is a great way to stay fit. Lanier 4 Works Cited Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (2016, September 01). Adult Obesity Facts. Retrieved April 16, 2017, from https://www.cdc.gov/obesity/data/adult.html National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases. (2012, October). Overweight and Obesity Statistics. Retrieved April 16, 2017 U.S. Department of Health & Human Services. (n.d.). Council on Fitness, Sports & Nutrition. Retrieved April 16, 2017, from https://www.fitness.gov/resourcecenter/facts-and-statistics/ Yu, W. (n.d.). How to Reduce Kids TV, Computer, and Cell Phone Time (D. S. Kirschenbaum PhD, Ed.). Retrieved April 16, 2017, from http://www.webmd.com/parenting/raising-fit-kids/recharge/reduce-teen-screen-time