Ajayi 1 Cover Letter My presentation included a video on CCN that showed the money that was found in an apartment in Ikoyi Lagos Nigeria. It showed how it was neatly arranged all over the unoccupied apartment. During my presentation I talked about the history of the country and the different problems the country has been facing up until this point. I also talked about the steps the current administration is taking to help stop corruption in the country in order to help rebuild the economy from its terrible state. Ajayi 2 Adedamola Ajayi T. J. Murray ENC 1102 16 th April, 2017 The disappointing Nigerian economy Nigeria is a country located in the Western region of Africa. She has a population of about 170 Million. She gained her independence on the 1 st of October 1960. Nigeria is the richest country in Africa with a GDP of over $590 Billion (USD). This is due to the presence of Oil in the country. She also has a GDP per capita of $5,360 (USD). This has been a good thing for the country but it has done more harm than good in the long run. This is due to the high level of corruption amongst those in political posts in the country. The Nigerian economy is at a decline due to the high level of corruption in the country. For many years, corruption has been a big issue in the country. Former Head of State Gen. Sani Abacha stole over $4.3Billion (USD) while he was in office. Another Former President Olusegun Obasanjo is believed to have stolen approximately $25 Billion (USD) during his time in office. Despite the presence of the and Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in Nigeria created to tackle corruption cases has for many years been in a never ending battle against corruption. The current President, President Muhammadu Buhari that was elected into office in 2015 on a platform of fighting and ending corruption in the country has since exposed numerous corrupt officials in the country with the help of the EFCC. These officials (currently in office or ex officials) have stolen large amounts of public funds from the country. Ajayi 3 Recent cases include the $43 million dollars, and 23.2 million Naira in cash found in an apartment in Ikoyi Lagos, Nigeria. This money was found neatly arranged in cabinets in the apartment. The apartment is known to be owned by the Former PDP (Major Political Party) chairman Ahmadu Adamu He has denied ownership of the apartment. This major bust was as a result of the new Whistle Blower Act that was created by the EFCC that gives 2.5-5% of a successful raid. This is known to be the biggest bust by the EFCC in history. This is not the only bust made my the EFCC, other bust of lesser amounts of money have been found all over the country. The state of the economy is terrible at the moment. The value of the naira dropped drastically within a short period of time. This has not only affected the price of foreign exchange but also the cost of living within the country. Citizens of the country fear that the money found by the EFFC would end up falling into the hands of corrupt leaders instead of ending up being put back into the economy to help boost it. The country should continue to fight corruption but they should take an extra step by not protecting those found guilty because of present or former political positions. No one should be above the law with no exceptions. This is going to help the economy of the country to achieve greater heights and make standards of living conducive for the citizens. My call to action for my peers is to encourage them to read about more countries that might have similar problems that Nigeria has and create more awareness. Most people that live outside countries facing these issues do not know how critical the issues are and the effect it is having on the citizens of those countries. I would also encourage them to start up awareness groups especially in universities and discuss these issues and learn more about them with the help of people from those countries. Ajayi 4 Corruption is a major thing affecting a lot of countries all over the world. Nigeria currently tops the world rankings for the most corrupt country in the world. They have maintained this position for 2 years running. If this path is continued by the government and extra steps are taken to fight corruption, they will be on the path to success and an economic boom. Ajayi 5 WORKS CITED Adegoke, Yemisi. anti-corruption unit finds $43 million cash in Lagos  CNN. Cable News Network, 14 Apr. 2017. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Whistleblowers rake in $160m, N8b for  News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). N.p., 12 Feb. 2017. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Focus on Non-oil Revenue  THISDAYLIVE. N.p., 30 Apr. 2017. Web. 19 Apr. 2017.