Powdar 1 My presentation was the same as my paper because I want people to understand that reporters need to ask better questions so they are not looking stupid when the athlete embarrasses them with their response. With so much technology reporters should not still be asking stupid questions. Powdar 2 Olivia Powdar ENC 1102.906 Prof. TJ Murray April 11, 2017 I Ask These Questions We need to change the questions we ask when interviewing athletes any time. Russell Westbrook is one of the greatest players in the league, and he will not allow the reporters to attempt to separate him from his team when something goes wrong. On ESPN the reporters are supposed to ask questions that are going to give us real answers. They are asking questions where the answers are easily or Nobody watching the game wants to hear a yes or no, they want to know what the athlete is really thinking. The interviewers need to be prepped before they are sent off to the sporting event. Their superior needs to train them on the question they should ask, each sports news station has specific questions they want answered. The first thing that needs to be done is the prep work for the questions needs to be looked over by at least 2 of their peers to see if they are able to answer the questions in more than a yes or no answer. The questions need to be rehearsed several times before they ask the athletes or the coaches. The interviewer does not want to be tripping over their questions when they are asking the questions. The questions need to be thought provoking so the interviewer is able to get a good answer without ending up on the chopping block. Powdar 3 The interviewer needs to know who they could end up interviewing they need to know the stats of all the members on the team so they are able to rely on those while they are asking questions. Russell Westbrook is one of the greatest players in the league, but it seems that reporters just can not stay off his nerves. has never hidden his annoyance at having to answer questions for reporters after games,... Westbrook has a history of letting the media know when Since the reporter has the the entire game and a halftime show to come up with real questions. One reporter named Tramel seems to keep getting on Westbrooks nerves. In a recent post game interview Tramel asked Steven Adams why the team seemed to fall apart after Westbrook went to the bench, but he was not going to allow Tramel to pick their team apart or pit them against each other. Before the reporter goes to the game they need to watch videos on the athletes they could potentially be interviewing, they need to see what kinds of questions have already been asked such as Draymond Green and the flood in Houston in the 2016 playoffs. A reporter was attempting to compare the flooding to the Warriors success an interesting a reporter said. last year you visit Game 3 no flood, you win. Game 4, there was flood, you lose. This year you visit Game 3 a flood, you lose. Game 4, no flood, you win (Joseph) Draymond said you asked me about the flood in practice the other Green said. said that I pray for the city of Houston because you want to see anyone go through that I know what getting at, and Powdar 4 not going to get it out of me. It The reporters should not want to look stupid because they asked the same questions as another or because they are trying to create problems between teams. In this day and age where you have most of the world at your fingertips there is no need for reporters to be confused about the response they receive when they ask the athletes dumb or redundant questions. The superiors at all sports news stations need to make sure they are not sending their reporters out to ask questions that will embarrass their station. The Oklahoma City Thunder has its own reporter Lesley McCaslin and she is the one who will ask the players questions during timeouts, halftime and postgame. She is a great example of the kinds of questions that other reporters should be asking because the fans at home are able to have a real insight at what the athlete is thinking. Powdar 5 Works Cited Neubeck, Kyle. Russell Most Memorable Run-Ins With  Complex, 24 Apr. 2017. Web. 26 Apr. 2017. Oldskoolbball. Russell Westbrook *UNCENSORED : Top 10 Best Post Game  YouTube, 14 July 2016. Web. 26 Apr. 2017. Dailythunder. Russell Westbrook tells reporter, No more questions for you,  YouTube, 05 May 2012. Web. 26 Apr. 2017. Joseph, Andrew. Draymond Green goes off on reporter after question about Houston  USA Gannett Satellite Information Network, 25 Apr. 2016. Web. 26 Apr. 2017.