Iuliucci 1 Katheryn Iuliucci 30 April 2017 ENC 1102 Professor Lay How an American Tradition Helps More Than Just Humans Envision being in a crowded, loud room, awaiting a torturous death by way of gassing, axing, or electrocuted. Unfortunately, preceding this disrespectful death, no quality of life was lived. Imagine a monotonous life, consuming the same food each day even though it is not part of your natural diet. Picture the loneliness, the cold, and the isolation. This is no way to live life, and humans know this because we do not practice this lifestyle. However, we do inflict this sort of pain and torture on our livestock. Instead of enduring forced, horribly low-quality, unnatural lives, animals should live freely and eat foods that are a normal part of their diet. The solution to these problems concerning the delicate balance between the omnivorous diet and the well-being of animals is rather simple. Hunting may be the answer to problems. The sport affects every human being; however, college students and young families may have the most power in dictating just how beneficial hunting can be. Hunting should be encouraged in The United States of America because it conserves animals and their ecosystems, is more humane than factory farming, and is overall healthier than purchasing store Hunting is a safe sport that can be accomplished through many different methods. Ranging from spear fishing to pole fishing, or the use of crossbows or firearms, humans can obtain food in a variety of ways. The sport is not strictly limited to one animal, such as deer. Instead, the term in this essay will be used as an all-encompassing expression to cover Iuliucci 2 everything from hunting on land, to fishing in water. Many people disagree with hunting simply because they lack education about the subject. Understanding hunting culture better may alleviate the negative opinions surrounding the sport, and lift the stigma that hunters are just evil animal-killers. To first address the concerns about safety, one must know that with a gun is the third-safest sport when compared to 28 other popular sports, and has a lower injury rate than golf, volleyball, and tackle (Keith). Legal hunting in The United States of America consists of extensive education courses as well as permits, all done in efforts to maintain a safe and educated hunter population in the country. Hunting is not only safe for humans, but for animals as well. With proper hunting techniques, animals experience minimal suffering time and a quick death. Ironically, hunting does not just kill animals, it conserves them. This seemingly impossible statement actually proves true when further researched. Hunting actually aids in population management in wildlife. Though some may argue that the ecosystem is a very delicate system that can be unbalanced, one must remember the ways in which it is already unbalanced. When looking at other factors that interact with the natural world such as pollution, industrialization and climate change, it is hard to deny that humans have already affected the balance of the environment. Hunting actually helps to solve the errors created by humans, and restore balance in the wild. Animals which have a hunting season placed on them actually need to be hunted. For example, overpopulate and eat up all their food and then starve when not hunted, and hunters do buy licenses that have funded deer reintroductions and Hunting Hunting prevents animals from suffering and dying of starvation. This is not just a theory, but can be seen in statistics. Data on hunting is collected by various credible organizations including the U.S Government, and the Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation. Iuliucci 3 The Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation has worked for thirty-three years ensuring the future of wildlife, their habitat, and hunting heritage (RMEF). The foundation works with many scientists and is known for receiving many grants for scientific advancements and research studies. A great example of how hunting actually increased a population is the comparison of turkey populations. In 1900, only 100,000 wild turkeys remained, thanks to hunters, today there are over 7 million Reasons It can be seen in real life examples that hunting is in fact conservation. Many people fail to recognize the impact hunting has on the social environment and economy. In 2011, 13.7 million people above the age of 16 hunted in the United States, with expenditures totaling $33.7 billion (U.S Department of the Interior). The sport is a popular way for people to tighten their bond with each other as well as the environment. Things such as are often passed down within families; older generations deliberately teach skills to (Arnett). Hunting demands that people are knowledgeable of landscapes, habitats, and the species they hunt. Hunters also must understand how these three things interact with one another (Arnett). Economically, hunting has been a huge contributor to things such as U.S employment. The activity is for 600,000 U.S jobs, $66 billion in economic activity and $10 billion in state and federal tax (Wood). The sport allows for a balanced economy, my distributing money to places that may not get as much as other locations in the U.S. For example, rural communities bring in a large amount of the money associated with hunting because of the goods and services they offer related to wildlife recreation (Poudel). American hunting is one way that maintains a balance of money, and keeps areas out of poverty. Hunting is more humane than purchasing meat from the grocery store. By purchasing meat from the grocery store, one supports the torturing of animals. Most grocery store animals are not grass Iuliucci 4 fed nor free range. Instead, the animal spent its whole life living in a confined space eating foods unnatural to its diet, such as corn and synthetic growth hormones. These conditions are no way for an animal to live because it takes away from their quality of life. Animals such as and turkeys are bred to grow so fast that their bodies cannot endure very the compared to the natural world, where they grow at a rate which their bodies can handle. These major problems are simply unavoidable in the presence of factory farms. However, hunting avoids these problems. Hunting animals in the wild does not leave room for any form of cruelty or torturous lifestyle. Instead, animals enjoy quality of life. In addition to an overall better life well lived, the execution of animals is far more humane. Hunting avoids the extremely treacherous process of stunning which occurs in most slaughter houses before the actual execution of the animal. In order to make animals unconscious before slaughter, the may be struck on the brain, electrocuted, or gassed the It is not until these animals are unconscious do they finally get killed. Hunting proves to be more humane by nature, as the animal is killed within minutes, not hours. It is important to care about hunting because it directly affects all people, especially college students and young families. Eating hunted animals is more natural, and possibly healthier than mass produced meat. Factory farms are helpful in that they produce a large amount of meat quickly. However, that is where the benefits of factory farms stop. These massive, unnatural, animal-torture facilities actually harm the earth and the body. There have been multiple accounts discussing ways in which factory farms have gone awry. Kate Hudson of Elmwood, Illinois recalls of the massive blow her town suffered from when a dairy was planted near her home. The owner of the dairy created a liquid waste pool from his farm. The massive load of millions of gallons of waste could not be contained. Ultimately, the waste flooded Iuliucci 5 the point where Peoria draws its drinking water, dead fish were turning up, and the entire area was an environmental disaster (Kirby 8). Factory farms damage the environment as well as human health. With all of the reasons why hunting is so beneficial, it is hard not to want to get involved in some way to support hunting. Due to many different reasons including the heavy reliance on factory farms, the amount of in hunting activities decreased by 12%... since (Poudel). Hunters need support, as the popularity of their sport have decreased, but the reasons to have not. One way to change this would be to become a hunter. To start, begin by educating yourself about hunting. You can obtain a valid Hunter Education certificate. This can be achieved by taking hunting courses. With this certification, you can then purchase a local hunting license and start hunting (Shaw). If you are not in a position to directly increase the number of hunters in the country, there are other ways to support hunters. You may start by donating to organizations that support both hunters and conservation efforts. Many groups such as Ducks Unlimited and the Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation work to provide resources for hunters as well as create conservation projects to restore different lands. For example, Ducks Unlimited restores grasslands and watersheds, replants forests, works with landowners and partners, acquires land, and forms management agreements (Conserving Wetlands & Waterfowl). Organizations such as this are made possible because of their donors. You can encourage these types of organization by donating your time or money. Many organizations accept monetary donations, some even offer products which raise funds for their organization. For example, Ducks Unlimited is famous for their However, if you are not able to donate money, you can donate your time instead. organizations utilize events to further advertise their cause, do their mission statement, and educate others. You can make a Iuliucci 6 difference by contacting different organizations and seeing how you can volunteer at events they host. With so many reasons to support hunters, and so many ways to do so, there is no reason not to take action. Hunting is beneficial to the United States economy, the health and well-being of humans, as well as the health and well-being of wildlife. Hunting is an all-encompassing hobby which affects multiple different aspects of life. It is important that America keeps this tradition alive in order to maintain a healthier and more environmentally friendly world. Even in times of technological progression, it is important for humans not to lose their roots. Iuliucci 7 Works Cited Arnett, Edward B. and Social Benefits of Hunting in North International Journal of Environmental Studies, vol. 72, no. 5, 2015. Taylor & Francis Online, doi:10.1080/00207233.2015.1033944. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. the Facts: Find out What Really Happens in Australian Aussie Abattoirs, Aussie Farms, 2014, www.aussieabattoirs.com/facts/stunning-killing. Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. Hunting Helps The Daily Caller, 1 Feb. 2012, dailycaller.com/2012/02/01/how- hunting-helps-wildlife/. Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. Kirby, David. Animal Factory: The Looming Threat of Industrial Pig, Dairy, and Poultry Farms to Humans and the Environment. St. Press, 2010. Google Books, St. Press,books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=VQ9sXDyYN64C&oi=fnd&pg=PP2&dq =onepage&q=factory%20farms%20are%20bad&f=false. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. Poudel, Jagdish. Contribution of Hunting Expenditure to the Southern United States of International Journal of Environmental Studies, vol. 73, no. 2, 2016. Taylor & Francis Online, doi:10.1080/00207233.2016.1143701. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Shaw, Hank. to Get Started as a Honest Food.net, Hunter Angler Gardener Cook, 2015, honest-food.net/want-to-learn-to-hunt-get-started-now/. Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. Iuliucci 8 Reasons Why Hunting Is Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation, Jan. 2013, www.rmef.org/Conservation/HuntingIsConservation/25ReasonsWhyHuntingIsConservati on.aspx. Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. U.S. Department of the Interior. 2011 National Survey of Fishing, Hunting, and Wildlife- Associated Recreation. U.S. Department of the Interior, 2011, www.census.gov/prod/2012pubs/fhw11-nat.pdf. Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. Wood, Keith. Reasons Everyone Should American Hunter.org, National Rifle Association of America, 7 Dec. 2011, www.americanhunter.org/articles/2011/12/7/six- reasons-everyone-should-hunt/.