Student 1 Student Prof. Paquette Enc 1101 16 April 2017 Obesity: Control your weight, Control your health Seat belt extenders and weight restrictions on roller coasters are simply minor inconveniences when compared to the major health problems that obesity causes in our country. From diabetes to high blood pressure, obesity has been proven as the second highest cause of death in the U.S. to tobacco use for 7 consecutive years. In addition to this, obesity has been rising with the growth in popularity of fast food consumption at an alarming rate. This a relevant issue because of the American population are expected to become obese by 2020, which is why it is of utmost importance that we as citizens take preventative measures and spread awareness to end this life threatening disease. Obesity comes with a myriad of other health concerns. One of the main issues is the rapid growth of obesity in children at younger ages. Kids consuming fast food and not getting adequate amounts of exercise set themselves up for a life-long battle against obesity and its potentially life threatening side effects. With this in mind, by making not only children but also parents aware of how the disease can be prevented before it gets out of hand, we can cut down on obesity rates and ultimately save lives. With such a large projected amount of onset obesity facing our country, it is imperative that the general population is aware of the health problems that obesity can cause in order to discourage the frequent consumption of fast food which has clearly been linked to unnecessary weight gain. The primary health concerns associated with obesity are high Student 2 blood pressure and cholesterol along with diseases such as Type II diabetes and certain mental illnesses. These concerns have caused hundreds if not thousands of lives to be riddled with health problems, poor self-esteem, and in the most severe cases death. As one of the biggest health risks in the United States, obesity needs to be solved through precautionary measures such as better dietary meals in schools and more hours spent outside on the playground or in intramural sports. Certain preventative measures can be taken to ensure that obesity never becomes an issue. Since fast food is so prevalent and easy to access in our country, the convenience factor of stopping at drive-thru frequently outweighs other healthy options that would prevent Americans from gaining unnecessary weight. According to a study completed in 2010 by the more than one-third of U.S. adults are obese, and frequent fast-food consumption has been shown to contribute to weight gain. Healthy dining alternatives and cooking at home are remedies to fast food consumption that can prevent obesity. Another measure that can be taken in the fight against obesity would be implementing mandatory exercise routines. This could be carried out via longer time spent in gym class or implementing more extracurricular organized sports outside of class. By increasing the frequency of exercise among our youth as well as improving their dietary habits, we can attack this problem at the source and potentially eliminate it in the future for generations to come. Perhaps the biggest factor in the obesity conflict is how greasy fast food has become a part of the American culture. Often times people take part in the consumption of unhealthy food contributing to obesity due to the people around them. By taking an initiative to discourage the consumption of food adding to the problem and instead replacing it with healthier alternatives we could remove the urge to consume food causing the problem completely. Another issue with this Student 3 is the relative cost of fast food in comparison to healthier alternatives found in a grocery store. In a 2009 study conducted at the University of Chicago, researchers found that over 85% of people who admitted to regular consumption of fast food said cost was the deciding factor in their purchasing habits. With fast food being posed as an alternative to healthier foods, Americans are falling into big corporate schemes in order to spend less money without considering the drastic effects it has on their health. This all comes back to root of the problem-- a lack of awareness among the general public. By creating movements to stop the consumption of fast food and to make the move towards cleaner, healthier meals we can discourage consumers nationwide from destroying not only their lives but the lives of people depending on them for their dietary needs. Together we can make this change and take the next step towards a stronger, healthier, and more sustainable lifestyle to eliminate obesity as a leading cause of death in America. Student 4 Works Cited Obesity: Halting the Epidemic by Making Health Easier, At a Glance  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 26 May 2011. Web. 29 January 2017. Obesity: Preventing and Managing the Global  Health Organization (WHO), 2000. Overweight and Obesity: Health  Surgeon General, Nov. 19, 2013 Web. 02 February 2017. G.A. Bray, Obesity Is a Chronic, Relapsing Neurochemical  Journal of 2004 Print.