Okpor 1 Favour Lucky Okpor Ms. Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 19 March 2017 view on Animal Captivity Animals are being abused in different ways such as being kept in zoos for making profit off the tourists that comes over to watch them and animal skin is used a lot in the fashion industry to make cloths like bags and furs. PETA- People for Ethical Treatment of Animals is a nonprofit organization that fights for animal rights and they try to stop acts of animal abuse through the use of multiple campaigns with the help of celebrities. For the first image it shows a woman who represented a fish that was kept in a restricted area. For the second image it shows a young healthy looking man who was holding a big chain and in the picture it says stop the elephant cruelty. The main goal of PETA is to stop animal suffering and in the process of doing so they create awareness of animal captivity, the images used in this paper illustrates that animals are suffering and do not like the restricted areas they are being kept in. This organization was founded in march 1980, by Newkirk and fellow animal activist Alex Pacheco, the Organization first caught the attention in the summer of 1981during what became known as the silver spring money case. This was a widely publicized dispute about experiments conducted on 17 macaque monkeys inside the institute of Behavioral Research in Silver spring, Maryland. PETA focuses its attention on the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest period of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories and in the entertainment industry (PETA). They also on a variety of other issues, including the cruel killing of rodents, birds and other animals who are Okpor 2 often considered as well as cruelty to domesticated animals (PETA) and their goal is to stop animal cruelty and to ensure that animal rights is being observed. The target audience this Organization is trying to reach out to are those people who work in zoos, aquariums and people that support the use of animal skin for fashion purpose. . . . . . . . . . . . . . For the first image it shows a woman that was looking very sad and depressed. There was also a big hand over the image that Krupa was looking up to in such a fearful way. The meaning of all of these is to express to the audience that animals do not like being in a confided, they have feelings just like we humans and should not be treated differently. The target audience for this particular advertisement are people who work in aquariums, people that pay money to go see animals in aquariums for fun and young men because Krupa is a curvy young beautiful woman and any young man looking at this advertisement will be motivated to read more because they see something that is attracting them. It uses logos, ethos and pathos to send across their message to people; that is for people to shy against animal captivity and to stop going to places like the aquariums where fishes are being kept for amusement. Ethos can be explained by generating common ground with the target audience this can also mean that ethos has a lot to do with credibility of the image. In the first picture PETA made use of a beautiful young celebrity named Joanna Krupa who is a polish American model, actress and an animal rights activists. Working with someone who is an animal rights activist gives more credibility to the image and the message the image is trying to send across to people. Again using a celebrity that has a huge fan base will be of advantage to PETA because people tend to listen more to the celebrities they like and admire. Pathos which has to do with the quality that evokes pity and sadness from the audience, in the image the words that were being used in the picture Lonely. A long way from And Krupa face that shows the suffering and the depression Okpor 3 animals go through. These are the little elements that were used to get to the audience emotionally and make them have sympathy for those animals that are victims of captivity. Logos means to convince an audience with supporting materials like statistics, historical and literal analogies. In the image the logos are the Organization PETA because it represents the authority that talks about the issue so whatever PETA says about animal captivity can be used as a fact in any situation, Krupa being a fish who was confided in a big bowl of water shows how the fishes in acquarium are being kept to move around in one particular place and the big hand that is shown in the picture represents seaword which is the organization that is responsible for animal cruelty. Animals behind cages, starving and dying, is an awful sight. The philosopher, Immanuel Kant said in his lectures on ethics: who is cruel to animals become hard also in his dealings with However true this is, it does highlight that causing suffering in general should be viewed as a bad thing, irrespective of whether we are causing the suffering of a human or an animal(Moosa). There are victims without a voice. Every year, thousands of animals are victims of cruelty (South university). For the second image it shows a man that was held up with a chain around his neck and was dragging the chain that looked like it was attached to something that would not like him go. The target audience for the specific advertisement are people who maltreat animals in a cruel way and force them to do things for example animal sellers, the message this image is trying to send across to their target audience is the cruel treatment of elephants in captivity. Clad in nothing but chains, the celebrity appears in one ad with the tagline Animals belong in chains: Stop Thai Elephant and in another urging the public to boycott zoos. In this image they made good use of ethos when they featured Patrick Ribbsaeter who is a super model that has worked with major brands like Armani, Gucci and Calvin Klein. Now having Okpor 4 someone like Patrick who is a sexy looking model doing this campaign will attract a lot of audience to listen to the message he is trying to send across especially the female audience. Another element of ethos would be PETA themselves because they are the Organization that tries to create awareness of the problem animals are facing and the sole purpose of the organization is to make sure that animals are not being treated as slaves. The element of pathos that was used in this image was the saying Animals belong in this statement is meant to leave the audience with a sense of pity for the animals. And another saying that states the Elephant this statement is meant to let the audience know that animal cruelty is still happening and the audience should have sympathy for these animals and try in their own little way to fight against it. Also looking at the models face you will notice that he is trying to set himself from the chains and the message behind this is that elephants are privately owned. Most are used as tourist attractions in elephant camps, where they are forced to perform circus tricks and give rides. Logos is being represented by the Organization PETA because they have a lot of information to give to the audience and going to their website there are some facts and historical analogies that can be used to back up their stand in this issue. Again from the image the red and black message that states animals belong in the black means that it is something that is bad and inhuman and the red represents the stop sign which means animal cruelty should be stopped. The chains that are around his neck and his facial expression shows the hardship these animals go through and the grey background gives that vibe of this being a serious issue and should be taken seriously. Despite the fact that this organization tries to use rhetorical appeals to reach out to their audience there are still some logical fallacies that can be indicated in their ad campaigns. For the first image the logical fallacies that can be found are Ad Homniem that has to do with attacking Okpor 5 the person instead of the argument, in the image a woman dressed in a fish outfit, trapped in a big bowl of water and a huge hand over the big bowl of water. It is obvious that PETA is referring to seaworld because they are the once that capture these fishes and put them in restricted areas are money making. Basically, PETA is saying that the organization seaworld is bad and should be stopped because they are practicing animal cruelty. Another logical fallacy that can be found in the first picture is the Argument from Authority whereby an argument is said to be true because a presumed expert or witness has said that it is, in the image PETA partnered with Joanna Krupa who is a well-known celebrity with a lot of fans. Now using her for an animal right campaign will first of all attract a lot of people because of the amount of fans she has and as a result of this people will conclude that whatever PETA says is right because their celebrity crush Joanna Krupa feels right. For the second image PETA also made use of the logical fallacy called Argument from Authorities where they used another celebrity named Patrick Ribbsaeter another model celebrity that has a lot of fans especially the female fans so whatever acts Patrick is fighting against his fans will not question it because they hold him in such a high esteem and believe that what his doing is for a good reason. In conclusion these images have helped to express what the Organization PETA is all about with the use of famous celebrities down to the use of rhetorical appeals to get to their target audience to act in a certain way. The Organization has good intension towards animals but whenever they create a campaign there is always an element of logical fallacies present in their advertisement such as Argument from Authorities and ad hominem. They make use of celebrities all the time because of the huge amount of audience they can get to through the celebrities they use. In their campaigns they tend to attack those people that are into the use of animal for making Okpor 6 money or people that uses animals for entertainment purpose and that is one thing both pictures have in common. Okpor 7 Okpor 8 Work cited About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Moosa, Tauriq. Animal Captivity Big Think. The Big Think, Inc., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. University, South. Animal Cruelty and Neglect  South University. South University, 7 Dec. 2012. Web. 19 Mar. 2017.