Ridley 1 Student Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 30 April 2017 The effects of child abuse on mental health is a hard statistic to measure accurately leaving this topic of research open to many counterarguments and criticism. There is no way to really get hard statistical evidence seeing how most experiments are conducted by simply using surveys or interviews then drawing the results to diagnose these subjects with some sort of mental or physical illness. Therefore, counter arguments could be made that the information gathered is not valid due to dated research methods and also that there are too many variable that could account for the mental health effects as the child grows into an adult. First off, to help add to the credibility of the information gathered during these experiments, each source used similar methods when conducting their research. For example, B.E Molnar and Rosana Norman both conducted similar experiments where subjects were either interviewed or completed a survey and their physical signs were observed to look for any obvious signs of health effects. These studies were conducted over ten years apart and both used the same method and found similar results. Molnar found that there were about 14 signs of mental health effects on his subjects including social anxiety, mood swings, and risky sexual behavior. Norman also found similar mental health effects in her research including social anxiety, higher chance of risky behavior, and more prone to substance abuse. One could argue that, since the method used was the same across a whole decade and nothing changed, the Ridley 2 information gathered is dated and might not be accurate. Now this is a valid point however, it is hard to argue with two experts in the field getting similar results even though it may be a decade apart. Also, there are many other experiments that have been done that have all yielded similar results all throughout the millennium. So, though a counter argument could be made that a few experiments may not be accurate, it is hard to argue with dozens of experiments that are conducted by experts being incorrect. When it comes to social anxiety, this is the most common mental health effect of those who were abused according to all the experiments that have been studied. It is hard to argue with a unanimous conclusion from many qualified researchers that social anxiety is the most common. However, when it comes to other effects such as more prone to drug abuse and engaging in risky sexual behavior, one could argue this an effect of being abused as a child. This may be true in some cases but Allan Horwitz covered this possible counter very well. Horwitz basically said that when it comes to substance abuse and engaging in risky behavior, these issues mostly stem from traumas that have occurred in that life leading them down this path. What he did was look at his surveys and into their past and if he found that there was no other sign of a major trauma in their life besides being abused as a child, it is safe to assume this trauma accumulated all through their childhood and manifested into mental effects such as risky behavior and substance abuse as adults. Furthermore, to add to the credibility of these experiments there are detailed statistics associated with the research as well as these experiments were conducted with a control group. Valerie Edwards conducted her research by exposing her subjects to forms of abuse then having them complete a 36-item short-form health survey to assess their current mental health status. She found that of the respondents who reported any form of child abuse, over 34 percent Ridley 3 reported multiple forms of abuse. She also found that the more forms of abuse these subjects had been exposed to, the lower their mental health score was on the assessment. She conducted this experiment with 8,667 subjects to make sure she had that control group and that any information she gathered was accurate. This shows that there is a level of control when conducting these experiments to yield the best results possible. Edwards used over 8000 test subjects to make sure her findings were supported and that any statistical evidence she noted was valid. This refutes any argument that could be made about there being too many variables to account for as well as there not being enough statistical validation for this topic. Any experiment conducted from any credited sources always makes sure to add the variables controlled in the experiments. This includes a control group, the surveys or background checks to make sure no other trauma has occurred that could possibly be a separate reason for any mental health issues, and comparing results to other adults who were abused as children. In conclusion, there are many skeptical people out there that could try to make valid points when it comes to presenting a counter argument on this topic. However, these counter arguments could easily be refuted by just providing sources that show the method of research. Once a critic sees that dozens of professionals in this field all used the same or similar methods to conduct their experiments and also yield similar results, how could one make a counter argument at that point? Furthermore, when it comes to the fact that there may be too many variables to control, this argument could also easily be refuted. Each experiment listed above accounts for every possible variable there may be. These researchers must account for everything since they are dealing with such a large time gap from when the child was abused to the now grown adult. The researchers provide the surveys or mental health tests then they compare this to Ridley 4 a control group as well as to other subjects of the experiment. This gives any similarities and differences there may be between the subjects and a normal person or the control. They also look into the lives of the subjects to make sure there was no other significant traumatic event that may also be a reason for any mental health issues. All of these different counter arguments could be made when it comes to someone refuting any claims that could be made in regards to this issue. There is plenty of evidence to show that these mental health effects are the real thing and anyone suffering from child abuse should seek assistance. Ridley 5 Work Cited Edwards, Valerie. Relationship Between Multiple Forms of Childhood Maltreatment and Adult Mental Health in Community Respondents: Results From the Adverse Childhood Experiences  Relationship Between Multiple Forms of Childhood Maltreatment and Adult Mental Health in Community Respondents: Results From the Adverse Childhood Experiences Study American Journal of Psychiatry. N.p., 01 Aug. 2003. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Herrenkohl, Todd. Developmental Impacts of Child Abuse and Neglect Related to Adult Mental Health, Substance Use, and Physical  Journal of Family Violence 28 (2013): 191199. Web. 04 Feb. 2017. Horwitz, Allan. The Impact of Childhood Abuse and Neglect on Adult Mental Health: A Prospective  Journal of Health and Social Behavior 42 (2001): 184-201. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Molnar, B. E. Child sexual abuse and subsequent psychopathology: results from the National Comorbidity  American Journal of Public Health. U.S. National Library of Medicine, May 2001. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Ridley 6 Norman, Rosana. The Long-Term Health Consequences of Child Physical Abuse, Emotional Abuse, and Neglect: A Systematic Review and  The Long-Term Health Consequences of Child Physical Abuse, Emotional Abuse, and Neglect: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. PLOS Medicine, 27 Nov. 2012. Web. 04 Feb. 2017. Wang, Ching-Tung. Estimated Cost of Child Abuse and Neglect in the United Prevent Child Abuse America, Sept. 2007. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.