Quichocho 1 Student Dr. Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 12 April 2017 The Call for Educational Reform in America Innovation, progress, and prosperity are all words that come to mind when one thinks of the United States. Though only a little over two centuries old, America stands among the top countries with one of the largest economies, strongest military forces, and most diverse populations. Although these are all noble attributes, how does the United States fare in the education realm? Contrary to popular belief, the United academic performance in global context has been on the decline over the past decade or so. This poor academic performance brings a valid concern to educators and the American government and raises the question: what factor(s) are causing this steady decline in the education? Some propose the answer to this question is testing. Debates over standardized testing remain controversial, as they are necessary, many other be harmful in large doses (Phelps 5). Whether for or against standardized testing, one thing remains: America needs an educational reform. The historical conversation over the need for educational reform in America remains the same, but the urgency of the call to action is steadily increasing. At first glance, it appears that the United States is doing exceptionally well in regards to education, but according to results from the Program for International Student Assessment (PISA), other countries continue to outshine the U.S. The constant decline of academic performance on global assessments solidifies the fact that an educational reform in American education needs to take place immediately. Quichocho 2 Within the last few decades, the American education has undergone constant reconstruction. These periods of reconstruction can be categorized into three distinct reform movements: the excellence, restructuring, and standards movement (Hunt 122). The results of these movements has shaped the American education system seen school days and years, more graduation stipulations, and the abundance of standardized testing. Despite these efforts to improve education, America has stagnant since the (Bell 9). Government acts such as former President George No Child Left Behind and former President Barack Every Child Succeeds have sought to achieve academic excellence through constant use of standardized tests administered on both the national and state level. This approach has yielded no significant improvement. This is especially apparent when looking at how American students fall behind compared to students in other nations. Countries like Japan, Canada, and Finland have all undergone educational reforms that have allowed them to excel in academic achievement; the United States seems to be the only country experiencing negative results from educational reform (Bell 8). For this reason, leaders in American education have analyzed tactics used in other countries and propose the potential success that can come from adopting certain methods and incorporating them into American education. Many other nations have undergone educational reform through new successful policies. The country of Finland is a prime example of educational reform that has proven successful over the years. During the the time American education ceased introduced peruskoula: a forty-year process that completely revamped the Finnish school system (Hunt 125). Through peruskoula, Finland implemented a strong teacher force, which many view as the biggest attribute to Finnish success. Other countries like Japan and Canada have also revolutionized their educational system through the implementation of excellent teachers, Quichocho 3 granting autonomy to schools, and allowing teachers to personalize learning (Schleicher and Stewart 49). The United States has restricted the freedoms of teachers by subsequently forcing them to narrow their curriculum to teach students to pass the national and state-issued standardized tests. Contrasting the United approach, Canada and Finland have granted their educators more freedom to personalize learning for students. From the results of recent PISA scores (with Canada and Finland surpassing the United States), it is obvious a correlation exists between educational methodology and improvement in academic performance. With this continual decline in global performance among other nations, many educational leaders have called for reform in the American education system over the past decade. Though the conversation as to whether or not a reform is needed has not changed, the urgency for a reform has greatly increased. Since past attempts at reforming education in the United States has proven counterproductive, it is clear that new strategies for education must be implemented. By abandoning the emphasis on standardized tests, the United States can begin to incorporate other methods that will contribute to future academic success in a global context. Although many education leaders are in agreement with adopting other excelling methodologies into the American education system, there are still some who believe the education system is fine as it is. According to Richard Phelps, a main voice for keeping standardized testing as a main factor in American education, standardized tests are necessary to assess academic progress over the years (Phelps 3). Many who are for standardized tests argue that the tests do not hinder curriculum, rather the tests keep teachers and schools accountable by ensuring the curriculum focuses on the crucial concepts and skills. Although accountability of teachers is important to academic success, restricting the curriculum to ensure success on standardized tests takes away creative and interactive components Quichocho 4 of the learning environment. Though standardized tests are created to provide an equal opportunity for all students, some students are unable to think clearly in such a hostile testing environment the Use of Standardized Tests Improving Education in Rather than completely veering away from standardized testing, the American education system should lessen the amount of and reliance on the tests. The United States can learn a great deal from analyzing the key educational factors in succeeding quality teachers, autonomy of schools, and personalized teaching. The difference between countries that continue to rise in global ranks academically and the United States is where the emphasis is placed. Rather than standardizing education with various tests like that in the United States, other academically successful countries personalize education in order to effectively teach their students. Along with personalized education, the qualifications for teachers is greater than those of the United By integrating methodology that has proven beneficial in other educational systems into the American educational system, the United States will experience a reform that will enable the nation to compete with other countries that are continuously excelling in academics. Quichocho 5 Works Cited Bell, Julie Davis. World Apart: How Are Other Countries Able to Close the Achievement Gap and Produce Such High-Achieving State Legislatures 8 (2016): 8. Academic OneFile. PDF file. 11 Apr. 2017 Hunt, John W.1. Evolution of Public Education in the US and Finland: Can the Finnish Model Work in the Journal of Philosophy & History of Education 63.1 (2013): 121-136. Education Source. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Phelps, Richard P. One: Standardized Testing Primer. N.p.: n.p., 2007. Education Source. PDF file. 11 Apr. 2017. Sahlberg, Pasi. from American Educator, vol. 35, no. 2, (2011): 34-38. PDF file. 10 Apr 2017. Schleicher, Andreas and Stewart, Vivien. from Educational Leadership 66.2 (2008): 44-51. Academic Search Premier. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Standardized Tests -  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., 02 June 2016. Web. 11 Apr. 2017.