Hill 1 Cameron Hill Prof. Missler Comp 4-16-17 Lead The Way On Lead! Did you know that naturally occurring elements can be dangerous to us and other animals? Although lead is found in many naturally raw materials, it is not good for our ecosystem or ourselves. In fact, according to The Times of India, twenty percent of kids in Kolkata are affected by lead poisoning. We need to make sure that this does not happen here in the United States. A few ways that lead gets exposed to our ecosystem and us is through outdoor recreation products and car parts. For example, lead is the prime material in hunting bullets. When the hunter disperses of the bullets, they end up staying in the ecosystem for a long time. What ends up happening is animals will mistakenly consume these bullets, and end up dying. Also, the dispensed lead that sits in our forests ends up polluting our oxygen. There are many additional ways that lead is mindlessly put into our environment. However, USF is coming together to propose a solution so that everyone and our ecosystem can win. Not only is USF pushing for no lead in outdoor products, they are also pushing for the reduction of as much lead as possible. According to the Department of Environmental Quality of Michigan, lead pollutes the air. This is the air that everyone needs to survive. The way that lead pollutes the air is through mindless disposal of lead into our environment. When plants get exposed to lead, their leaves soak it up. Once leaves absorb the lead, the oxygen that they produce becomes polluted. This happens a lot with hunting bullets, but also can come from other common products like paint, jewelry, batteries, and protection coatings on some products. Although it would be perfect if lead could be completely eliminated today, that will not happen. Hill 2 Alternatives to lead can be expensive so it is understandable that it will not be an immediate transition. Until lead is completely eliminated, people must be responsible and properly dispose of their products. USF is working hard to reduce lead so that our plants can remain healthy. This will result in the cleanest oxygen for humans to inhale. Another way that almost all families can be affected by lead is through their automobiles. Anyone who owns or has been in an automobile is likely to have been affected by lead. This raises a huge concern because cars are everywhere. Lead can be commonly found in car parts, which almost all humans come in contact with. Also, old care commonly put into dumps where the lead can remain endlessly and pollute the air. However, the good news is that there recently has been a push for change. According to the California Department of Toxic Substance Control, many automobile distributors now have alternatives to lead parts. Some of these alternatives include zinc, plastic, and steel. This is a good start as people indeed spend a lot of time in their cars. It is important that people continue to push for safer car materials because cars are an essential role to our daily lives. USF is looking to create alternatives for lead in every aspect of lives. Finally, the last side effect that will be discussed in this paper occurs when lead fishing weights are discarded into the water by fisherman, whether done on purpose or accidently. According to multiple environmental agencies, in the united states, lead poisoning caused the death of animals like the common loon, trumpeter swan, and the mute swan. When a line snaps, generally whatever is on the other side gets lost in the water. This is a frustrating experience for the fisherman, but even more consequential for the animals living in the water. Too frequently, hooks, weights, and lures are left in the pond unrecovered. Any of these items, Hill 3 mostly weights, that are made out of lead can have major consequences with the local wildlife. According to the University of California Museum of Paleontology, many water based animals will eat stones to help digest their food. It is an essential part of the digestion process. However, most animals can not tell the difference between a lead fishing weight and a stone. As a result, these animals will end up eating lead fishing weights and dying. Some other animals that people are killing by leaving their lead weights include but are not limited to are: Geese, swans, ducks, alligators, beavers, and otters. USF is determined to help fisherman make the switch from lead to alternative fishing weight materials so that the water and its animals can be as healthy as possible. The University of South Florida works globally to find solutions that make life better for everyone. They are asking for people to help jump over this consequential hurdle and make a better environment for everyone. If lead can be eliminated from our environment, we will see healthier plants, animals, and better air quality for all to enjoy. To get rid of a natural element will be a difficult task, but it is one the University of South Florida is willing to take on, and they are asking for your help as well. After completely reading this paper, take the survey and find out how you can be a global citizen and help make a better environment for everyone. Hill 4 Works Cited to Lead Wheel Department of Toxic Substance State of California, 2007, www.dtsc.ca.gov/PollutionPrevention/ToxicsInProducts/WheelWeightAlternatives.cfm. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Franson, J. Christian, et al. Fishing Weights and Other Fishing Tackle in Selected vol. 26, no. 3, 2003, pp. Accessed 4 May 2017. Lead Poisoning Affects 20% Kolkata  Times of 2013. ?direct=true&db=edsggo&AN=edsgcl.336677188&site=eds-live. Wedel, Matt. of California Museum of Paleontology University of California Museum of Paleontology , 2007, www.ucmp.berkeley.edu/taxa/verts/archosaurs/gastroliths.php. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Are HereDEQ Pollutants and Toxicants Environmental Lead - How Does Lead Affect Our State of Michigan, Accessed 16 Apr. 2017.