Alex 1 Student Dr. Jenifer Paquette ENC 101 April 30, 2017 Solar Energy Solar power is for sure an innovative and renewable energy that must be used for a beneficial cause. While some people still believe that non-renewable energy is still required because it produces most of the energy around the world, scientists and environmentalist disagree. For the past years, a change in the energy industry has been questioned but right now it must happen due to all the pollution problems. Traditional energy is not only harming the environment with air pollution, emitting CO2 and other elements that affect the atmosphere but also affecting the health of many humans. Some of the benefits that contains solar energy, which is energy produced by sunlight are very important. Solar power can reduce the green-gases emissions and prevent the burning of fossil fuels, which anyway will not last long enough. Although solar energy is not as widely used as other, non-renewable energy resources, it will soon become the main energy source because adapting it will save the humanity from a catastrophe in the world. Because there is so much pollution in the world, scientists have realized it is time for a quick change in the energy industry. Scientist Michael E. Mackay says energy is extremely important because fossil fuels resources will last on order of no more than 100-300 years; yet burning them generates human made carbon dioxide which is responsible for changes in the earth such as global warming and arctic ice These environmental changes have been an issue in the last decade. For example, it is not Alex 2 normal to see high temperatures on November or December during the winter in places where normally are below 0 This affects so many ecosystems and animals that are already adapted to a sequence in the global season calendar. Most of the fresh water is located on Icebergs but these are melting due to global warming. For instance, sea level is rising and it is expected that many islands or coast can go underwater in the future. These issues have escalated in recent years because concentration has reached a level of approximately 50% above that of the last 800,000 years and this has only happened in the last 100 years (Mackay, 18). Looking at the numbers, it is terrifying to know that pollution is dominating the world and if continuing with the same systems we could be seeing a collapse in the upcoming years. Since solar can be a solution to an environmentalist problem affecting everyone in the planet, it must be used and developed at a higher scale. Finding new mechanisms that produce clean energy and taking them to every single place on earth is the major priority nowadays. The ecologist Katherine Ellison said, power is too This might be one of the reasons solar energy is still developing and establishing as a principal power option. Traditional energy is way cheaper than renewable energy and the process of converting energy to electricity are a lot easier. This makes traditional energy the number one option power source around the world, even though it is really harmful. However, with all the technology growth, there are studies and investments going on right now to discover a new method and cost effective way to make solar energy affordable for everyone on earth. According to the famous magazine Forbes, like Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg and Jeff Bezos recently invested part of their fortune on clean energy projects focusing on solar (Forbes Billionaires, 1-4.) All these efforts combined with researches and studies Alex 3 at different places in the world will be extremely helpful to make solar power the energy of the future. In her article Katherine says, to surveys, large majorities of Americans said they not only want more solar power, but would pay more for (15). Of course people want to see a change on the market if technology can make things simpler. It is better to invest more money on something that can benefit people in the future, rather than pay a cheap price and be highly affected by several consequences. Traditional energy has also been dominating the energy industry because whoever owns the electrical companies also owns the oil and bank industries. Since traditional energy requires fossil fuels like petroleum, natural gas and oil, the owners know they are becoming richer every day they dominate the industry. In the past, it was way too hard for someone who wanted to come with a new project because it was indirectly stopped and funded enough to grow. Keeping new energy project away was their purpose because their monopoly could be affected. However, they should now support this new cause if they want to get affected by the pollution issues. Everyone would like to enjoy the benefits of clean energy and join the $10 billion annual market of it. Solar energy can provide more than benefits to the environment, since it can also meet the entire energy demand around the world. 1 hour of sunlight is enough energy to supply everyone. Not everyone in the planet have the benefits to live having electricity, many people even know it exists and the idea with solar energy is to solve this issue. power provide health, environmental and climate benefits by displacing conventional generators and therefore reducing emissions of carbon dioxide and criteria air pollutants, which include sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and fine particulate (Kyle Siler-Evans, 1168). By using solar power the emission of many air pollutants Alex 4 would be reduced having a great impact on the environment, climate and health. This would generate a better life not only for humans but for animals and plants as well. If all the air pollutants emissions were extremely reduced there be global warming, several diseases, climate changes and ice melting. Stopping these things from happening would give people hope because the average life expectancy will increase everywhere. Imagine seeing China or India fueled by clean energy, this will actually be very beneficial for all those people currently affected by the pollution issues. In fact, according to a team of environmentalist, 2012 an increase in large-scale solar power plants were built around the world, including the construction of the Golmud Solar Park in China that has an installed capacity of 200 megawatts and Gujarat Solar Park that has a combined installed capacity of 605 (Greentumble, 23). This news is very satisfying because it shows the growth of solar power is real and the effort to stop pollution is happening as well. Some people say that solar power is only for developed countries because developing ones are not yet ready to deal with the technology of it. This is not a strong claim because in order to have solar power in one country the average citizen really have to deal with the technology. For this reason, there are experts on the field that can be in charge of power plants and work every day supervising them. In an extreme case, those very poor countries that are very limited in all aspects, there is the hope that some world organizations can bring the structure to them and even prepare them for any circumstances once the system is well developed. Also, with the globalization around the world and daily life improving, solar panels will be placed in each house in the future. People can understand the basics of the energy and be Alex 5 independent when having solar panels, making it a revolutionary and established way to have electricity. In conclusion, solar energy is growing at a high rate that it will become the energy of the future. Once established around the world it will prevent pollution and many environmentalist issues that need to be stopped nowadays. As traditional energy will not longer have the fossil fuels for its generation, solar power will have the sun as the most powerful energy source there can be. This argument matters within a larger context because solar energy has become a very strong electrical power benefiting not only the environment but humanity as well. While solar power is still on development and studies, many efforts show that it will become the energy of the future not only because of the recent growth but also for the need to establish a well-formed clean system for pollution purposes. The main reason of changing the energy system is not about money or technology but about saving the entire humanity and providing everyone on earth with better life expectancy. Alex 6 Work Cited Barber, James. Solar Philosophical Transactions: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, vol. 365, no. 1853, 2007, pp. 5 Mar. 2017 Dolan, Kerry A. Forbes 2017 Billionaires List: Meet The Richest People On The  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 20 Mar. 2017. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Ellison, Katherine. Power: The Future Looks Frontiers in Ecology and the Environment, vol. 4, no. 8, 2006, pp. 16 April. 2017 How Was Solar Energy  Greentumble - Together to Support Awareness & Conservation Activities. N.p., 12 Dec. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Mackay, Michael E. Solar Energy: An Introduction. : Oxford University Press, 2015-06- 01. Oxford Scholarship Online. 2015-08-20. 5 Mar. 2017 Siler-Evans, Kyle, et al. Variations in the Health, Environmental, and Climate Benefits of Wind and Solar Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, vol. 110, no. 29, 2013, pp. 11773. 16 April. 2017