Khaing 1 Aung Khaing Harley Campbell ENC1102.089 17 April 2017 Cancer: Searching solution Human bodies are made of more than 37 trillion of cells, these cells have their own functions, and with all system working human stay alive. Cancer is a disease of abnormal growth (Hosick 1). Cancer has led to many deaths, and sadness around the world, as it is one of the deadliest disease that threaten mankind for centuries. There are many ways to approach cancer, and none of them have absolute success. In fact, cancer can occur on any one regardless of age and gender. Chemotherapy is one of many methods to cure cancer, it uses drug to neutralize/kill cancer cells, and have successfully treated cancer patients, but most of the time it brings side effects that harm the body. About the same time immunotherapy was in research to cure cancer, and organization like CRI was founded by Helen Coley Nauts in 1953 to research Immunotherapy is a treatment that enhance natural power of human immune system to fight cancer, it is known as most promising new cancer after first chemotherapies in the 1940s (What Is). Cancer is dreadful, it can happen on anyone, research is essential and need to be haste, as there are many people suffering right now around the world. Anyone can help just by volunteering or Khaing 2 donating to research organizations like Cancer Research Institute (CRI) and UK Cancer Research. To begin with, in an excerpt of the book, Medical by Hosick, states that life begins as a fertilized egg which divides repeatedly; the adult human body is composed of a trillion cells, each with a specific job to (Hosick 1). Both internal and external organs are made up of tissues, which is made up of cells, and these cells help perform many little functions that are required for the body to survive, which includes extraction of wastes. As stated, body is made up of trillion of cells that multiply themselves to perform the process, and this process stops when a person reaches adulthood, but the body does this also to repair and maintain (Hosick 1). One factor of cancer that made it hard to cure is the cancer cells duplicate and will spread quickly if the body is not healthy or lack the strength to release enough anti-body to fight against it. This anti-body is called the T and is toxic to cancer cell (Hosick 1). What chemotherapy does is like this process, but use of drugs also kill the good cells in the body along with the cancer cells, which make the patient weaker at the same time. When the body is weakened, the ability to produce and transport nutrient drops, which make it unable to produce anti-body to defend the body. Therefore, the patients must rely on more drugs to beat cancer. On the other hand, immunotherapy enhance the immune system to fight cancer, this allow human body to cure itself without killing healthy cells, like chemotherapy Khaing 3 or radiation (What is). This mean there will be less external interaction from dangerous matter like, drugs, and ray. It can also treat all types of cancer because the system recognize and target cancer (What is). However, immunotherapy is still not as effective as chemotherapy and more research is needed to improve the speed and the accessibility for treatment. On the other hand, some may argue that a fit and healthy person have less chance of getting cancer, which is true considering many cases that everyone know in the past. However, recall that cancer is an abnormal change of cells that already exists within the body, this mean that cancer can also occur accidently due to activities that are not helpful to the body. Hosick stated that cells are because they replicate themselves unlimited times where normal have limit (Hosick 1). When cancer reaches later stage, it is said to change its form and carried on with genes (Hosick 1), this explains the case that some people are born with cancer or will have higher chance of cancer in later age. Cancer is scary because it causes death in a short time, it is often very unexpected, it always hurt when someone is gone after watching them suffer, and trying to fight back. There are many people suffering from this unfortunate, whether they are born to or found out in the later year, and because it is so painful that many people give up cure and choose death. According to a research about net survival for cancer, 87% of colorectal cancer, 97% of lung cancer, 46% of melanoma and 68% of breast patient died (Schaffar). This statistic is about these Khaing 4 four kinds of cancer, which then sums up to around 2700 and more people died in America alone (Schaffar). Once again, anyone from any age or gender can have cancer, it is as scary as any story can tell and there are many stories out there that someone can relate to. In fact, finding cure for cancer is not cheap at all, and cancer cell is immortal. Someday someone might found itself in the same situation as the patient, and wish that someone could help them. Finally, if anyone want to contribute into helping research to improve future or help the people who are suffering, there are more than enough opportunities from countless of organizations. The easiest way to take part is to donate to support research or to charities that help people that do not have enough money to cure. CRI is a non-profit organization that research immunotherapy, and have cure many patients with their knowledge and efforts. CRI has stories of patients and doctors, telling the potential of immunotherapy and how they been through this harsh disease, which can be accessed through their official website. One can join their community to know what they are working on, and help them in many ways. Volunteering to take care of the patients will not just help them, but also help the volunteer to learn about cancer, and make friends who is experiencing suffer that require help. One can also donate blood for people who suffer from blood cancer, and volunteering to help support patient with daily need when taking immunotherapy, In conclusion, cancer can be cure, but no disease can be removed permanently, just Khaing 5 like fever, it occurs when the body tries to keep things in order, but failed. Cancer can also transfer through genes, making its home in our body forever. However, human body have its own protection against many disease and will always fight back to bring itself back to normal. Therefore, immunology can be the key to the future of self-cure, where the body learn to tackle the disease on its own without using dangerous methods. There are countless of people who knew the sorrow of losing someone dear, life end when the time comes, but everyone want to live longer and happier if they can, to accomplish goal or achieve dream. That is why we need to play our part to help everyone including ourselves, advancing knowledge and build a better life for all that share the same planet. Khaing 6 Work Cited CRI. is CRI. Cancer Research Institute https://www.cancerresearch.org/we-are-cri/what-is-immunotherapy. 17 Apr. 2017. Hosick, Howard L., and Rizzo, Connie.  Medical Guide (Online Edition), 2017January. EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.e du/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ers&AN=86193961&site=eds-live.Accessed 12 April 2017 Schaffar, Robin, et al. Original Research: Estimation of Net Survival for Cancer Patients: Relative Survival Setting More Robust to some Assumption Violations Than Cause- Specific Setting, a Sensitivity Analysis on Empirical  European Journal of Cancer, vol. 72, 01 Feb. 2017, pp. 78-83. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.ejca.2016.11.019. Jill. About  Cancer Research Institute. CRI, 16 Feb. 2009, http://www.cancerresearch.org/about. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Jill. Our  Cancer Research Institute. CRI, 16 Feb. 2009, http://www.cancerresearch.org/about/history. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017.