Lloyd-Gage 1 Marissa Lloyd-Gage Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.078 03 May 2017 Catastrophic Common Core Beginning in 2009, and initiated by former President Barack Obama, Common Core is a set of educational standards adopted by 42 states for grades K-12. These standards require certain knowledge and skill levels be met by the end of each grade level. Since the implementation of Common Core, questions have been raised as to whether the standards should be used in our education system. Seburn L. Pense wrote an article, Implementation of Common Core State Standards: Voices, Positions, and Frames, in which he does not take a side on the Common Core controversy, but introduces research and opinions of others. Common Core is a mediocre form of education that makes it harder for students to learn at their own pace, and even harder for teachers to individualize their teaching methods. Pense should get involved in this controversy as it is a very important issue that affects our children and the future of our country. Students are future leaders which is why it is vital to be involved in the movement towards quality education. There are a few ways to get involved, like funding organizations that work towards abolishing Common Core, calling state senators, and voting in favor of our education when voting season comes. Common Core is not beneficial in preparing our students for the real world. Expecting all students to learn at the same pace and same level is unrealistic and inhumane. Education should Lloyd-Gage 2 be individualized as much as possible, evaluating each learning level and teaching them according to that. Common Core has caused education to be more so about passing state tests than accumulating useful information. Although it seemed like a clever idea in the beginning once the implementation began it all went downhill, been very supportive and involved in development of the says Van Roekel in a recent interview. it came time to implement those. still in that phase. Adoption was an event; the implementation is far more of a (Russo 40). There have been multiple surveys taken that show the decreased support from all sides, even original supporters. One poll surveyed teachers, the general public, republicans, and even democrats and found that from 2012 to 2016, support from all parties was cut by almost half (Peterson 11). Common Core is an unfair way to educate the students because it does not allow equal opportunities. For example, a student who is above average in learning is forced to stay behind while slower learning students must suffer. It is also harder for students to get help with their school work because not many people, like parents, understand Common methods of teaching. These standards have implemented an entirely different approach towards learning, especially in mathematics. The strategies used to teach students math are difficult, especially for parents, to understand without training in Common Core Standards, so when it comes to homework, many students become stuck. Each student has methods that work for them, particularly in math, but in other subjects as well, that Common Core does not offer enough flexibility to use. Therefore, Common Core is a catastrophic, unfair way to educate our children. Having an opinion on this topic is vital to our countries future. Dr. Seburn Pense, is a Professor and Agricultural Education Teacher at Southern Illinois University. He wrote the article, Implementation of Common Core State Standards: Voices, Positions, and Frames to Lloyd-Gage 3 identify and discuss views of teachers, community members, politicians, and others on Common Core State Standards. Pense preformed this research simply to inform the public on the beliefs about Common Core throughout the country without including his own bias. This article discusses the economic impact Common Core State Standards have, as well as the change in teacher accountability and school governance. He identifies that, many of the voices were positive, concerns existed among groups relating to (Pense 169). The goal of this article is to advertise opinions on the standards so that readers can possibly make a decision on what side they agree with. However, not having a solid opinion on this topic could be detrimental to the future of our country. Becoming engaged in the Common Core controversy is not only important but it is beneficial in the long run. Think about it, with high expectations from each grade level, does students are not able to learn at their own pace. To accommodate for falling behind, students often stop putting their effort towards learning and begin to focus solely on passing (grades, tests, grade levels, examinations, etc.). One day when we will all get old, or sick, or go to the doctor for some reason. Imagine having a doctor or a nurse that grew up to learn to pass rather than to learn. These students are our future doctors, nurses, lawyers, accountants. Would you want your doctor to have cheated his or her way through medical school? Or a lawyer that never studied but merely memorized the law? What if your accountant cheated on all their math exams? Common Core has created a community of students who are not concerned with the information being given but what they will be tested on. It would be beneficial to YOU to act on Common Core before you get a doctor that never actually learned their medical skills. We must abolish Common Core to create LEARNERS rather than PASSERS. Lloyd-Gage 4 Dr. Pense, there are a few ways to act against Common Core. The first way is to support and organization that has goals of abolishing Common Core such as The Parents Against Common Core. The Parents Against Common Core petition against this form of education by publicizing their beliefs on the matter, the country, parents and teachers have formed a network of grassroots activists dedicated to fighting the Common Core and restoring the right to govern the education of their (About Us). On their website, there is an area to donate and an area to that provides other ways to take action such as speaking out about it and contacting legislators. Entering an email on The Parents Against Common Core webpage is an effortless way to get notifications on the steps being taken by the organization and how to get involved. Contacting a State Senator is another way to take action against common core. By doing so, every will be heard by the state and eventually accumulate until the state takes action. Another way to get involved is voting for the people and laws that are in favor of better education. For example, voting NO on the No Child Left Behind Law would be one step to abolishing Common Core. There are many other laws one may vote for or against in order to act against Common Core Standards, but the important part is getting out there and voting. Keep in mind that these young students will be our leaders one day, and quality education is the key to success. Common Core is a set of standards adopted by 42 states that expects students to acquire certain skills and knowledge by the end of each grade level. This form of education is detrimental to the students in America and our future. Pense, it is important to become engaged with this topic and to abolish Common Core before it completely taints the minds of our future leaders. By acting against Common Core, you will benefit by having leaders, doctors, and lawyers be well-educated rather than people who were focused on passing rather than learning. Lloyd-Gage 5 You can act against Common Core by supporting groups in favor of abolishing these standards, contacting your state, and voting against laws that support Common Core. Lloyd-Gage 6 Works Cited About Us Parents Against the Common  Parents Against the Common Core. Web. https://parentsagainstthecommoncore.com/about/ Pense, Seburn L., Beth Winfrey Freeburg, and Christopher A. Clemons, Implementation of Common Core State Standards: Voices, Positions, and  Career and Technical Education Research 40.3 (2015): 157-73, 4 Apr. 2017, 10.5328/cter40.3.157 Peterson, Paul; et al, COMMON CORE BRAND TAINTS OPINION ON STANDARDS. (Cover  Education Next 17.1 (2017): 8-17, Education Source. 11 Apr. 2017, http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?vid=3&sid=afaefe7d-1cba-47d4- 98d9- 864521f53aa5%40sessionmgr4006&hid=4210&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#AN=1 19867970&db=eue Russo, Alexander. Teachers Unions and the Common  Education Next, vol. 15, no. 1, 01 Dec. 2015, pp. 36-42. 11 Apr 2017. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?vid=5&sid=afaefe7d-1cba-47d4- 98d9- 864521f53aa5%40sessionmgr4006&hid=4210&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#AN=e dsgcl.392369483&db=edsgov Troia, Gary. Common Core Writing and Language Standards and Aligned State Assessments: A National Survey of Teacher Beliefs and  Reading & Writing, vol. 29, no. 9, Nov. 2016, pp. 1719-1743. 11 Apr. 2017. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?vid=5&sid=afaefe7d-1cba-47d4- Lloyd-Gage 7 98d9- 864521f53aa5%40sessionmgr4006&hid=4210&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#AN=e dsgcl.392369483&db=edsgov Wright, Ginney and Jason L. Endacott. Historical Inquiry and the Limitations of the Common Core State  Journal Social Studies Research, vol. 40, no. 4, Oct. 2016, pp. 309-324. 11 Apr. 2017. 10.1016/j.jssr.2015.07.003