Nyanzu Bird Conservation 1 Alfred Nyanzu Alison Missler Enc 1102 16 April 2017 Bird Conservation Have you visit the beach recently, did you enjoy your stroll on the beach while admiring the brightly lit skyline? If yes, you would have noticed that there were no seabirds during your nightly stroll. That means there is a strong possibility that your local area is suffering from light pollution as well as being impacted by the numerous oil spills that we have been recently experiencing. That is why we are promoting the importance of bird conservation. Bird conservation can be helpful in numerous ways which includes; tracking and studying of long term population trend of birds, monitoring and understanding bird habitats, protecting of endangered birds for humanity etc. (Curio, Hohman, Martin, Smith, Stephen, M.Strong and VerCauteren 267). What many people are not aware of: is that birds could be endangered in numerous ways which end result would have negative effects on our environment and human as well? In order to do something about this issue, it is important to create awareness and knowledge about Bird Conservation and endangerment. In order to educate the society of the importance of Bird Conservation, the Students of University of South Florida will be having a Bird Conservation where we will educate the student population of the existing Bird Conservations that are located in Florida. Nyanzu Bird Conservation 2 According to the International Journal of Hydrogen Energy 2016, mass mortalities of seabirds are a common in the aftermath of oil spills with tens, if not hundreds of thousands of birds stranding dead or dying. Unfortunately we are not able to provide a specific numbers of birds that die yearly due to oil spills. This information was reaffirmed when the International Bird Rescue explained on their website, that there is an oil spill, impossible to know in advance how many birds will be impacted. International Bird Rescue works with local state and federal biologists to look at what animals are in the area at the time of a spill and try to determine what species and how many of them may be exposed to However, we have the data to pin point the exact numbers of birds that die, because many times the birds necessarily die at the location of where the spill occurred. This was clearly explained on the National Oceanic and Atmospheric and Administration website called, the Office of Response and Restoration where it explained that the best estimation of the number of birds that died during the Exxon Valdez oil spill was 250,000 birds. The website further goes on to explain that the issue is, most bird carcasses do not make it to the shore intact where researchers can count them. As a result, Researchers have to make estimation on the number of birds that are killed during the oil spill. The danger is, we may be losing more seabirds than we realize, hence making a convincing argument for promoting Bird Conservations in the 21 century. Hence, seabird populations are particularly vulnerable due to their distribution, foraging and breeding behavior. Following a spill, seabirds will come in to contact with crude oil floating on the surface causing them to become smothered with oil and this can cause immediate mortality via suffocation (International Journal of Hydrogen Energy). The frequency in oil spills in the past 20 Nyanzu Bird Conservation 3 years has not only harmed the aquatic environment but it also impacts the lives of the animals that uses the aquatic environment to source food and their livelihood. Often times, when we think of an oil spill in our rivers and seas, our focus would be predominately on aquatic life. However, oil spills affects birds too. The external oiling of seabirds causes large scale mortality within days following a spill, while survivors suffer causes long term chronic effects from the exposure to toxic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) present in ingested oil. Survival rates for rehabilitated oiled birds are very low despite investment of significant resources (International Journal of Hydrogen Energy). So one may argue that, all we have to do is clean up the spill, and all will be well. Unfortunately that is not the case. This was eloquently explained by Richard Charter, a lobbyist for Defenders of Wildlife in the East Bay Times Article titled, to be felt for years written on November 10, 2007 and updated August 17, In other words, it would be safe to deduce that, not only are the sea birds being impacted, but life as we know it for fisher men, water sports, aquatic tourism and wildlife that feed from the ocean are also being disrupted from a socio-economic and environmental perspectve. Researchers have indicated that, in the past, humans used flame to lure birds to them. The birds would see the light, and automatically be drawn to it. Then the humans would capture the birds and use them for food (Gauthraeux Jr. and Belser). In view, birds with flu slaughtered illegally for food can be harmful to human health. Today, in modern society, we are not using flames to lure nocturnal and migratory birds for food. Instead, our skylines are lit with bright illuminating lights, which appear to trick the birds into thinking that these bright and Nyanzu Bird Conservation 4 illuminating lights are the setting sun, brightly lit moon and the stars guiding them along the migratory journey which occurs twice per year. Our brightly lit skies not only misguides the birds, but it causes the birds to get lost and trapped in urban areas, where there is limited food, nesting areas but they get trapped in areas that causes them to lose their lives (Gauthraeux Jr. and Belser). The Associated Press on Friday, October 22, 2010, published an article titled, birds confuse Friday night light with the In the article, the author explained that the shearwater population, which numbered about 80,000 in the mid-1990s, plunged 75 percent in recent years as Kauai grew in size and added more lights that confuse the birds. In 2005, The U.S. Justice Department said federal wildlife officials notified the county that its lighting was hurting the birds, in violation of the Endangered Species Act and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. The article further went on to state that the government said that the county failed to install shielded lights that shine down on the field, not out, thus being less harmful to the birds. In other words, just shining the lights downward could have saved 80,000 birds. Allowing these birds to migrate safely, mate, source food and be free of unnecessary predatory death. Toronto has started its light out campaign, and has urged its audience to be mindful of the challenges as it migrates from North America to South America. Additionally, the article further explained that the birds had to deal with the possibility of not making it to its intended destination due to exhaustion, unforeseen harsh weather conditions, air pollution, and then being faced with preventable manmade conditions such as colliding in brightly lit glass buildings that grace the skylines and artificially illuminate our sky. One can claim that, the consequences of having all these birds unknowingly resorting to living in urban areas, will Nyanzu Bird Conservation 5 impact the health of humans. Failures to promote bird conservations will cause serious ecological impact to the bird community as well as for human beings are we begin to coexist side by side. Birds are forced to make cities their homes. Hence, they will be dropping fecal matter in areas where humans are living; they will begin to contaminate the water supply, as well as the air we breathe. Controlling the disease in the animal source is critical to decrease risk to humans.It is clear that the birds need a sanctuary or a habitat that will not be impacted by urban development that fails to factor in ecological and sustainable practices in the growth and expansion of natural birds habitats. The sanctuary would be in the form of bird conservations that would be devoid of light pollution, health illnesses derived from feces, their feathers and nesting areas. As a result of the bird conservations being isolated from business development, the chances of oil spill contaminating their food supply and livelihood would ensure that their water supply would not be at risk of oil spills. In order to educate the society of the importance of Bird Conservation, the Students of University of South Florida will be having a Conservation where we will educate the student population of the existing Bird Conservations that are located in Florida. There, we will give out the information on how to get involved in creating more Bird Conservation in Florida. The Challenges of Bird Conservation will be discussed, as well as what can we do in reducing light pollution, protecting our loved ones from bird diseases, and discussions around building cities that are bird friendly. In 1918 Congress passed the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, which protects birds from people. However, The University of South Florida (USF) wants to call the students to action to take it one step further, reduce light pollution as well as discuss the impact of oil spills on birds and how we can contribute to bird conservations in Florida. Nyanzu Bird Conservation 6 Bird Conservation Challenge agenda would begin with making the students aware of the types of birds that are at risk due to light pollution and oil spills. We are serving wine, cheese with crackers. We will also giving away t-shirts that will help to promote Bird Conservations in Florida. Also, there will be showing a movie titled, Power of Community: How Cuba survived without as well as providing exhibits of what seabirds look like covered in oil and re-enact what a bird goes through during an oil spill. We will also host a discussion on Cuba being natural bird conservation. Also we will be hosting conferences at the USF Marshall Centre on the following topics: (1) The effects of Broadcast and Communication Towers; (2) lighthouses, lightships and flood lights; and (3) the positive impact bird conservation is having on Florida as well as (4) How we can ensure bird conservations continue to grow within the state. We will also have a will raffle program where a 60 inch Smart TV and all the money raised from the $2 raffle tickets would be donated to Florida National Bird Conservation Society. Students would also get an opportunity to select a Bird Conservation in Florida that they would like to donate to or volunteer their services. Together we stop the unnecessary yearly killing of approximately 988 million birds in the United States (Science News).This is a call to action, stop killing birds, donate to save birds. Nyanzu Bird Conservation 7 Work Cited 4, Chapter. Effects of Artificial Night Lighting on Migrating Birds (n.d.): n. pag. Web. Effects of Artificial Night Lighting on Migrating Birds, by Sidney A Gauthraeux Jr. and Carroll G Belser (Chapter 4, page 67) Elizabeth Ciuzio, et al. and Challenges to Implementing Bird Conservation on Private Wildlife Society Bulletin (2011-), vol. 37, no. 2, 2013, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/wildsocibull2011.37.2.267 Eric Vandernoot, Department of Physics, FAU. Birds Confuse Friday Night Lights with Light Pollution Kills Birds in the Environment, physics.fau.edu/observatory/lightpol- Birds.html. Accessed 23 Apr. 2017 Hawaii birds confuse Friday night lights with Moon, Source: Associated Press - Fri Oct 22 nd , 2010 7:14 pm ET Impacts of Oil Spills on Seabirds: Unsustainable Impacts of Non-renewable Energy. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. International Bird  International Bird Rescue - Our Work - Research and Education - How Oil Affects Birds - Oil Can Be Lethally Harmful to Seabirds. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Milius, Susan. Windows May Kill up to 988 Million Birds a Year in the United  Science News. N.p., 09 Apr. 2014. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Nyanzu Bird Conservation 8 School of Environmental and Forest Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, United States of America: Breeding Dispersal by Birds in a Dynamic Urban Ecosystem by, John M. Marzluff, Jack H. DeLap, M. David Oleyar, Kara A. Whittaker, Beth Gardner, Published: December 28, 2016. Tryjanowski, Piotr, Tim H. Sparks, Czechowski, and Leszek Jerzak. Bird Migration Advances More Strongly in Urban  PLOS ONE. Public Library of Science, n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Why Are Seabirds so Vulnerable to Oil Spills? N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017.