Madi Herman Erika Staiger ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Legalizing Recreational Marijuana Marijuana has a rich history, dating back to 8000 B.C.E. in Ancient China according to Christopher Aanstoos in the Salem Encyclopedia of Health. The drug today is illegal in the United States at the federal level, however it remains legal for medicinal or recreational use in some states. Marijuana is not the enemy, and never has been. The proper knowledge and information about the plant, as well as the continued support towards legalization, can help to end prohibition and regulate the responsible use of marijuana. Contacting state representatives, signing petitions for congress, and supporting organizations in the effort of legalizing marijuana are all ways USF students can approach the issue. Known for its psychoactive properties, marijuana is not a dangerous substance. A study done by David Mandelbaum and Suzanne de la Monte in Pediatric Neurology reports marijuana is safer than both tobacco and alcohol and previous studies have exaggerated the harmful effects of (19). The drug is also classified as a Schedule I drug, alongside heroine and cocaine. Written in Legalization of Marijuana, Alex Rich and Alexander Stingl describe a Schedule I drug as having a high abuse rate, no recognized medical application, and considered unsafe without medical supervision of use (Rich, Stingl). Marijuana, however, does not have a high abuse rate, is extremely well-known and legalized in some states because of medicinal properties, and does not require medical supervision for use. Additionally, it is physically impossible to overdose and there have been no deaths associated with marijuana. Delilah Butterfield, a writer for herb.co, suggests it would take about of marijuana in only fifteen minutes to put someone at risk of (Butterfield). Not only is marijuana a very safe substance, it also has medicinal capabilities that can prevent and help treat certain symptoms of diseases. According to NORML, a marijuana advocacy group, marijuana is currently legal for medicinal use in twenty-nine states with the proper proof of a medical marijuana card (NORML). Elizabeth Nelson reports in the Salem Encyclopedia of Health that while marijuana, also known as cannabis, can treat a variety of serious symptoms such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), multiple sclerosis (MS), chronic pain, and nausea associated with chemotherapy, it can also treat mild to severe symptoms of stress, anxiety, depression, and insomnia. The statistics for students on the Anxiety and Depression Association of America website are outstanding; Forty million U.S. adults suffer from an anxiety disorder and experience the first episode by the age of twenty-two. On top of that, 30% of college students report stress that adversely affected academic performance, 41.6% reported anxiety as their top concern, and 24.5% of college students reported taking some sort of psychotropic medication (afaa.org). The legalization of marijuana would provide patients with an easier way of accessing help (the use of marijuana) and getting the substance cheaper, faster, and easier than typical medication. Using marijuana to relieve symptoms associated with a variety of diseases can in turn put money into the marijuana industry and reduce adverse side effects with typical pills and medications given by physicians. Recreational marijuana also can help bring money to the state of Florida, benefiting not only students but Florida residents. Gianna Wilkie, Bachir Sakr, and Tina Rizack wrote in their study on marijuana in the Journal of the American Medical Association, Washington state brought in $70,000,000 in tax revenue from marijuana in the first year of sales alone (670). Aside from that, in 2006 a public policy report determined marijuana as largest cash crop (Rich, Stingl). If the drug were legalized, another 2004 study estimated approximately $2 billion in government revenue. The taxes on marijuana if it were legalized for recreational use would provide the state a larger budget for important projects such as fixing our roads, school districts, parks and rec funds, bridge funds, and more. Legalizing marijuana means the government can tax the drug, therefore bringing in money for each state as well as for the federal government. USF students should care about the popular issue of marijuana legalization whether they partake in using it or not because it affects and can help students in several different ways. College students can easily feel stress and anxiety during their college years trying to balance work, family and friends, and school work while figuring out the rest of their lives as well. Marijuana has the ability to successfully treat symptoms of anxiety and depression without causing adverse side-effects. This could benefit college students because instead of taking unnatural chemicals and pills for anxiety and depression, they can naturally uplift their mood and do better in school overall with the help of marijuana leading to less stress and anxiety. USF students should care about legalizing recreational marijuana also because of the money it can bring to the Florida, and eventually the federal, governments. Taxing marijuana and being able to collect that tax money means the money goes right back into the roads, school districts, colleges, and the environment. Florida is our home; the tax money from marijuana can help reshape our home, better it, and even lower taxes for everyone. The legalization of recreational marijuana is important for both smokers and nonsmokers, and there are simple ways to support this issue. USF students can help legalize recreational marijuana by signing petitions, contacting state representatives, and spreading truthful knowledge about marijuana. In 2016, there was a Florida Cannabis Act proposed needing 68,314 valid signatures to be reviewed by state attorney general, and 683,149 signatures to be considered for the November 2016 ballot (ballotpedia.org). In December 2015, the Regulate Florida campaign announced they were unable to get the required signatures, however this petition was re-announced for the 2018 ballot. To qualify the measure for the ballot, supporters must submit 753,603 valid signatures by February 1, 2018 (ballotpedia.org). Students can support the petition by going to regulateflorida.com and signing the form before February 2018. The Florida Cannabis Act by Regulate Florida will regulate marijuana much like alcohol is regulated today. Additionally, it is important for students to contact representatives. The Florida governor is Rick Scott, and senators are Bill Nelson and Marco Rubio. By contacting any of these three people and advocating for the recreational use of marijuana, the cannabis support-basis grows larger, and with more support is a better chance at legalization. Students can also contact marijuana advocacy groups such as NORML and Regulate Florida to volunteer at events and gain further support. Finally, it is extremely important for USF students to spread proper knowledge about marijuana. Since becoming illegal in the early 1900s, marijuana has gained intense negative stigmas and myths that hold true about the drug at all. Spreading the truth about marijuana and teaching people more about the drug and lack-of-risks associated will help to open up the minds of others and bring awareness towards the issue. The marijuana plant has been cultivated and used for centuries and brought to the United States in the mid-1800s (Aanstoos). Marijuana is mostly known for the psychoactive effects, however it was also a well-known medication to help with symptoms from various ailments for the Chinese and Egyptians. In the early 20 th century, the plant got a bad reputation because of the War on Drugs, and soon became outlawed at the federal level in 1937. What people realize is that marijuana is not a dangerous substance. It has virtually zero addictive properties and does not cause negative side effects (Rich, Stingl). USF students should care about the issue because students are often overwhelmed trying to balance school, work, and play, and it can be used as a natural stress and anxiety reliever as compared to prescribed oral pills for anxiety, depression, and the like. Students should also care because the money made from taxing marijuana if it were to become legal can go towards roads, highways, school districts, colleges, and more to help better the state we live in. Student supporters of marijuana can sign the Florida Cannabis Act, calling for over 700,00 signatures by February 2018 to legalize and regulate marijuana for those over twenty-one years of age. By supporting existing marijuana legalization advocacy groups such as NORML and LEAP, petitioning for marijuana legalization, and contacting government officials, marijuana can continue to become legal across the nation and the stigma associated by spreading the proper information can be diminished. WORKS CITED WORKS CITED Aanstoos, Christopher.  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health, Nov. 2015, eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=f485f807-3e32-4841-ba21- 27a058d8ec82%40sessionmgr4006&vid=0&hid=4210&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpd mU%3d#AN=89407075&db=ers. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. adaa.org, ADAA, 2016, https://www.adaa.org/finding-help/helping-others/college- students/facts. Accessed 28 Apr. 2017. ballotpedia.org, Ballot Pedia, 2017, Accessed 24 Apr. 2017 Mandelbaum, David E., and Suzanne de la Monte. Adverse Structural and Functional Effects of Marijuana on the Brain: Evidence  Pediatric Neurology, vol. 66, 2017, pp. 12- 20, ac.els-cdn.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/S0887899416304787/1-s2.0- Accessed Nelson, Elizabeth. Medical  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health, Dec. 2016. Ebscohost, eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?sid=25c24893-fa5f- 435b-a118- 79d3d71ad246%40sessionmgr4006&vid=1&hid=4211&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpd mU%3 d#AN=94415462&db=ers. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. NORML, NORML, 2017, norml.org/laws. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Rich, Alex, and Alexander Stingl. Legalization of Marijuana: An  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health, Feb. 2017, eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?sid=7ade7f6a-e6e4-459e-ab45- 88726204bdb9@sessionmgr101&vid=3&hid=120&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU =#AN=89158240&db=ers. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Wilkie, Gianna, Bachir Sakr, and Tina Rizack. Medical Marijuana Use in  JAMA, vol. 2, no. 5, May 2016, pp. 670-75, doi:10.1001./jamaoncol.2016.0155. Accessed 10 Apr. 2017.