Chloe Crawford Crawford 1 Professor Missler 04/16/17 Lifetime safety in the sanctuary Most of us are capable of remembering a time when we visited the zoo. Whether from a day trip with the family or a school field trip; a visit to the zoo is pretty common due to the fact that there are over 10,000 zoos worldwide. While some people including The National Geographic society may view zoos as an establishment that maintains a collection of wild animals, typically in a park and or gardens, for study, conservation, or display to the public; not always accurate. The previously stated definition is how zoos want the public to view them, however that is not the reality that they hold for their animals. Zoo realities includes confined spaces for the rest of their lives, depressed moods and severe anxiety that most visitors necessarily aware of. In order to stop the suffering that these animals have and take action to this concerning and important issue we must stop supporting zoos by one not attending them, and two by visiting an animal sanctuary instead. An animal sanctuary is a facility where animals are brought to live and be protected for the rest of their lives. USF has become aware of this problem and is promoting USF students to take a stand and to attend the Big Cat Rescue Sanctuary in Tampa on May 22, 2017 in honor of national animal sanctuary day. Showing and illustrating the reality that zoos provide for the animals will motivate others including you do take action and to do something about this important issue. Animals sadly suffer in zoos. By being confined to small spaces, animals able to perform their basic abilities which is in a sense taking away their rights. According to Clare McClausland who is the board member for Animal Ethics Research Network at the University of Crawford 2 Melbourne and author of Five Freedoms of Animal Welfare are stresses how animals deserve the to express normal (651). Zoos cannot provide the amount of space that animals in the wild have. Statistics from the Captive Animals Protection Society displays this as well. and lions have around 18,000 times less space in a zoo than they would in the wild, and Polar bears have one million times less Nothing can compare to the ample and abundant amount of space animals in the wild have, however those statistics prove how zoos provide sufficient spacing for their captive animals. Being in those confined spaces animals able to express nor perform their basic behaviors as an animal. Which then leads the zoos providing false information to the public. claim to provide reliable and credible information and education for the public however most zoos or parks are just covering up the sad fate of their animals. An example is SeaWorld, in the documentary SeaWorld was exploited for providing false information to their guests. False information including how orcas live longer in captivity when in reality they live longer in the wild. According to Rebecca Eisenberg author of 3 of the smaller lies SeaWorld makes its employees tell guests the whales in their pools die young, they like to say that all ocras dies at 25 or 30 Which is a lie, and the oldest recorded orca lived 103 years in the wild. The lies and false information is a result of the un-proper living conditions that these animals deal with for life. These unnatural state and conditions zoos hold their animals in lead to zoo animals suffering. Zoo animals suffer from a variety of things including depression, anxiety, and which then lead to abnormal behaviors. Since the zoo animals are deprived of ample amounts of space to house them these Crawford 3 animals illustrate abnormal behaviors. According to the article Zoos: Pitiful Prisons are closely confined, lack of privacy, and have little opportunity for mental stimulation or physical exercise. These conditions often result in abnormal and self-destructive behavior, known as One abnormal behavior that zoo animals do that is the most vivid to the average zoo attender is the pacing that some animals have. According to the Captive Animals Protection Society, lions spend forty-eight percent of their time pacing. almost half of their time alive, spent pacing by the same view, in the same cage for the rest of their lives. now understandable on how and why most zoo animals suffer from depression. Zoo animals only suffer from depression, but also from anxiety. Some animals are forced to perform for entertainment on a daily basis. Also captive animals are stressed out by screaming visitors banging on their exhibit. All of these examples illustrate how these animals suffer from being in a being housed and confined to a zoo. Fortunately, there is a way to still experience, and visit exotic animals up close and not attend nor support a zoo. You can do this by attending and or donating to an animal sanctuary instead. According to Ben Callison the CEO and president of the Humane Society of Wildlife land Trust, animals need sanctuaries. An animal sanctuary is a place where formerly neglected animals from zoos, circuses, and parks go to. Callison considers animal sanctuaries a haven where they can live the remainder of their lives in peace and The Big Cat Rescue sanctuary is placed on 67 acres for their rescued cats. Visitors are welcome to view their cats and will receive guided tours by volunteers. This natural replica of the environment is similar to the wild. While the average zoo habitat only a couple feet to house the animal for a majority of their life. You can also support animal sanctuaries by donating to (people for the ethical treatment Crawford 4 of animals) organization, at any sanctuary, online or in person. important to take a look at the image of zoo in a deeper intellect. evident on how zoo animals suffer in that environment. This is why it is so important and necessary to take action to this important issue. Take action and make a difference; May 22, 2017 USF students will take action on this issue. The wild animal sanctuary beautifully says how we can truly make a difference, one animal may not change the world, but surely-for that one animal the world will change Crawford 5 Works Cited Callison, Ben. Why We Need Animal Sanctuaries  LiveScience. Purch, 06 Nov. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. McCausland, Clare. The Five Freedoms of Animal Welfare Are  Journal of Agricultural & Environmental Ethics , no. 4, 2014, p. 649. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s10806-013-9483-6. The Wild Animal Sanctuary. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Zoos: Pitiful  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-in-entertainment/animals-used- entertainmentfactsheets/zoos-pitiful-prisons/>. Big Cat N.P., n.d Web. 03 May 2017 Here Are Just 3 of the *smaller* Lies SeaWorld Makes Its Employees Tell Its  Upworthy. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 May 2017.