Joseph Parker March 26, 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Uddin Composition 1 With seven out of the nine hottest years ever recorded on earth coming in the last eight years, no doubt that climate change is a real, formidable threat to way of life. But just how urgent is this issue? Is climate change about to cross a threshold yielding irreversible effects on various other aspects of society or should the issue of climate change be lower on the priority list of politicians in the United States. Does the criticality of the situation mandate a shift towards a more sustainable alternative in renewable energy or would this be detrimental to the U.S. economy? The opinion of the scholars publishing on the issue of climate change changed from prior to 2010 to the present, besides an increase of the perceived criticality of the situation. In Potential emissions of CO2 and methane from proved reserves of fossil fuels: An alternative analysis, published in 2016, Richard Heede states: climate change presents a serious threat to the health, prosperity, and stability of human communities, to the stability and existence of non-human species and ecosystems, and to international political and military In an article published in 2009, Richard Tol says Weather affects agriculture, energy use, health, and many aspects of in turn affects everything and (The Economic Effects of Climate Change 1). Not much new data has been collected since 2010, because of the nature of the climate sciences necessitating a long period of time to yield significant results, and the few recent discoveries made have only slightly skewed views and proposed solutions to this issue. Publishing prior to 2010 focus more on the effects of climate change than the newer writings, which have a focus on trying to mitigate the damage caused by climate change, as opposed to just chronicling in. These old sources detail agricultural, financial, and biodiversity issues. Richard Tol says effect of a doubling of the atmospheric concentration of greenhouse gas emissions on the current economy: few percentage points of GDP... From one perspective, roughly equivalent to a growth in the global suggests that over a century or so, the economic loss from climate change is not all that (5). He goes on to say benefits of a modest increase in [due carbon dioxide in the atmosphere reduces in plants and may make them grow (6) but this is followed by exponentially adverse effects as temperature continues to increase. Richard backlund states that livestock will be affected very negatively, experiencing feed intake, feed efficiency, animal gain, milk production and reproduction. Increased disease susceptibility, and (Backlund 74). This source says there are a lot of severe repercussions to biodiversity about to be incurred if a change is not made, and many of them are already in progress. Sources before and after both advocate for a switch to renewable energy, but more recent publishing have indicated that this transition be done on a more national scale than the older ones. In an older source, Renewable energy: tax credit, budget, and electricity production issues, the author describes how with metering allows customers with generating facilities to their electric meters when feeding power into the grid; they receive retail prices for the excess electricity they and how when the energy is distributed many of the large transportation fees are eliminated, (Sissine 9). Articles from after 2010 come with many more propositions for a wider scale implementation of renewable energy that involves replacing the fossil fuels infrastructure. In a journal article from February 2017, Green versus brown: Comparing the employment impacts of energy efficiency, renewable energy, and fossil fuels using an input-output model, Harold Garrett-Peltier writes number of researchers using input- output modeling have found positive employment impacts resulting from the growth of renewable energy and highlights the 7.49 full-time-equivalent jobs created per 1 million dollars of spending created by renewable energy compared to the 2.65 associated with fossil fuel (Garrett-Peltier). The author admits that current drawback of using I-O models to study clean energy impacts is that renewable energy industries and energy efficiency industries are not explicitly identified as industrial categories in national (Garrett- Peltier).