Akandh 1 Shah Akandh Professor Gaspar ENC 1102 3 May 2017 How GMOs can impact your lives for the better In our daily lives, everyone has something in that their lives revolve around and that is food. Everyone needs food to survive and live, without it people will not live that long. The main difference that people have with food is how they get it, like how it is produced, manufactured, or cultivated. In the traditional way of farming, the farmers plant the seeds and take care of the crops, hoping to get lucky with the yield they get and regrew the ones that prospered the best. They would continue growing the ones that produced the best results and are beneficial, also known as selective breeding. Selective breeding is a form of simple genetic engineering, where the person determines what the desired trait is by appearance of the organism and breed that organism with another similar one to continue the trait (Purugganan, Fuller 2009). Nowadays, genetically-modified organisms, or commonly known as GMOs, are a more common way of getting the specific trait of the organism. Certain organisms, like farm animals and crops, are genetically altered to produce a higher yield and be more efficient. Genetic engineering is used in other fields of science, besides farming and agriculture, like medicine. People are not concerned about genetic engineering in medicine and other medical areas but are view GMOs as harming and unsafe in agriculture and food industries. Genetic engineering is just a more complicated version of selective breeding; in selective breeding, it is based on luck, while in genetic engineering, there more of a choice and do not have to rely on luck to get the best outcomes. There are several advantages to using GMOs that make life simpler and better. GM (genetically- Akandh 2 modified) crops can produce a higher yield and have a more favorable outcome than non-GM crops. GM crops also have built-in pesticide and resistance, and require less harmful chemicals for protection than non-GM crops. There is also the argument that farmers lose out on jobs because GMOs, however they actually benefit more from GM crops. Also, GM crops can grow in places that non-GM crops would not be able to grow in. Main argument against the use of GMOs is that people believe that GMOs are toxic and are harmful to humans and the environment. However, through thorough studies and experiments, it was determined that GM crops have the same amount risk as non-GM crops (Domingo, 2011). That means that GM crops are not dangerous to be consumed since they are on the same level as and crops. selected original research papers, reviews, relevant opinions and reports addressing all the major issues that emerged in the debate on GE crops, trying to catch the scientific consensus that has matured since GE plants became widely cultivated worldwide. The scientific research conducted so far has not detected any significant hazards directly connected with the use of GE crops; however, the debate is still intense (Nicolia et al Many scientists and researchers have gone through reports, studies, experiments, and researches to determine that GM crops propose any real threats to humans and the environment. Normally, crops are sprayed with pesticides to provide protection and resistance against insects and other organisms that would be harmful against the crop. However, in GMOs, a gene is inserted in the genetically engineered plants that is taken from the bacterium Bacillus Thuringenesis, which lets the plants to make protein that destroys the digestive system of the insects that it specifies (Niederhuber This a way of the plant making its own pesticides instead of having to spray chemicals onto the plant for insect resistance, like on non-GM plants. People might be concerned that the poison, or pesticide, would be harmful for Akandh 3 humans but there is no reason to worry since the pesticide is target specific and is safe towards humans and bad against unwanted insects. The negative side effects of the use of pesticides on plants are that they can be very expensive and can be harmful for farmers if they are exposed to it for a while. Farmers in developing countries, like Afghanistan and Bangladesh, have to use the lower quality pesticides to combat the insects and diseases the crops might get and over time the expose of the pesticides cause the farmers to become sick. For example, in 2013, Bangladesh genetically modified eggplant known as BT Brinjal, that has resistance to pests, which then lowered their use of insecticides by 80% and also allowed their yield loss to be lowered from pests, while keeping the farmers safer (Cornell Alliance for Science 2016). Another benefit of using GM-crops and GMOs is that they produce a higher and reliable yield compared to non-GM and traditional crops. As stated before in the example from Bangladesh, the use of genetically modified plants allowed their yield to be higher because the plants were able to survive insects Cornell Alliance for Science 2016). Normally, the crops would get eaten by the pests and the farmers would get a lot less in their harvest but with GMOs they are able to get more yield and in a safer manner. Another example of getting a better yield with the use of GMOs is the papayas in Hawaii. In Hawaii, papayas play a major part in the economy; in the 1990s, the papayas were being effected by the ringspot virus. If the virus continued to spread, it would have wiped out the papayas and negatively impact the Hawaiian economy. So, to combat the ringspot virus, the papayas were genetically modified to be resist against the virus and the papaya industry was saved (Tripathi et al. 2007). The GMO saved a crop that otherwise would have been destroyed thus showing that GM crops are the better choice compared to non-GM crops. Akandh 4 There are a couple of ways of getting involved with supporting the use of GMOs. One way someone can get involved is by supporting companies that manufacture and use GMOs, like Baden Aniline and Soda Factory, also known as, BASF, and Syngenta. By using their products that contain GMOs, it shows that GMOs are favored and should be continued. Another way of getting involved is supporting the use of GMOs in the local level, by supporting farmers that use GM-crops and purchasing their products. When buying products from farmers, they can then buy more GMO seeds and farm more GM crops. Farmers benefit more from GM crops because they will not get exposed to harmful chemicals for pest resistance and they can get a reliable and higher harvest. By supporting GMOs, people are helping farmers stay safe and stay financially stable. Even if people do not buy products with GMOs from companies and farmers, they can at the very least spread the message of the benefit of using GMOs. Many people distrust GMOs because they do not understand GMOs or hear misinformation about them, but by researching reliable and creditable sources, people can understand the reason to use GMOs and support it. In conclusion, there are many reasons that people and society can benefit from the use of genetically modified organisms, commonly known as GMOs, and how it can positively impact their lives. GMOs have been tested and studied for their safety, how it effects humans and the environment, and its reliability compared to traditional and non-GM crops. There have situations that GMOs have saved crops and kept farmers safer when dealing with crops. As well, there are ways that people can support the use of GMOs and help others to understand the benefit of using GMOs in their daily lives. Word Count: 1262 Akandh 5 References Domingo JL, Bordonaba J. (2011). A literature review on the safety assessment of genetically modified plants. Environment Int, 37, Perspectives: Bt Brinjal in  Perspectives: Bt Brinjal in Bangladesh. Cornell Alliance for Science, 01 June 2016. Web. Nicolia, Alessandro, Alberto Manzo, Fabio Veronesi, and Daniele Rosellini. An overview of the last 10 years of genetically engineered crop safety  Critical Reviews in Biotechnology 34.1 (2013): 77-88. Web. Niederhuber, Matthew. Insecticidal Plants: The Tech and Safety of GM Bt  Science in the News. Harvard University, 10 Aug. 2015. Web. Panchin, Alexander Y., and Alexander I. Tuzhikov. Published GMO studies find no evidence of harm when corrected for multiple  Critical Reviews in Biotechnology 37.2 (2016): 213-17. Web. Purugganan, M. D.; Fuller, D. Q. (2009). The nature of selection during plant . Nature. 457 (7231): Schulman, Miriam. Risks and Benefits of  Resources - Bioethics - Focus Areas - Markkula Center for Applied Ethics - Santa Clara University. Santa Clara Magazine, 1 June 2000. Web. Tripathi, Savarni, Jon Suzuki, and Dennis Gonsalves. Development of Genetically Engineered Resistant Papaya for papaya ringspot virus in a Timely Manner: A Comprehensive and Successful  Plant-Pathogen Interactions (2007): 197-240. Web. Vaesa, Janelle. GMOs: Benefits and Negative Effects of Genetically Modified  Decoded Science. Decoded Science, 19 July 2013. Web.