Dimitropoulos 1 Stefan Dimitropoulos Dr. Uddin ENC 1101 May 7, 2017 Project 3: Final draft It is common knowledge in the health and fitness community that exercise helps people stay healthy, and avoid diseases such as cardiovascular disease. Exercise helps to avoid this by bringing people bodily benefits such as reduced body fat percentage, increased stamina, increased muscle strength, endurance, functionality, and flexibility. Those who are at risk of exercise and diet related health issues are those with little to no physical training experience. For physically untrained people looking to stay healthy, all of the health benefits listed are ones they should generally look to achieve to maintain overall health. Some types of training bring benefits from one end of the spectrum whereas some bring benefits from the other end, leading scholars to generally agree that the best way to stay healthy through exercise is to engage in multiple types of physical training. For an untrained person, a beginner, this can pose a difficult task. One may shy away from including exercise in their daily regimen, along with their nine to five job, if it is necessary to learn about so many types of physical training first. A beginner may find it convenient to commit to one single type of physical training, see minimum bodily improvements, develop more comfortable mobility, and then explore other types of physical training. If an untrained person is to engage in only one type of physical training, calisthenics body weight training is the best single type of training for them to start with as it achieves the most amount of health benefits. Dimitropoulos 2 The is a term coined by Thomas DerLorme, where he explains that muscle strength, muscle hypertrophy, and muscle endurance are all achieved through different training modifications. Lining up with the list written earlier, one can say that the strength endurance continuum is healthy for untrained beginners to achieve. The Campos et al 2002 study tested to confirm the strength endurance continuum and the way trainers believe in achieving it. They had three groups of participants undergo an eight week training program. The first group did low repetition training and gained an increase in muscle strength. The second group did intermediate repetition training and increased in muscle hypertrophy. The third group did high repetition training and increased in muscle endurance. The team did succeed in gaining evidence to support the strength endurance continuum, and they did it using three types of training. They used low repetition training, considered strength training or powerlifting training. Intermediate repetition training, considered bodybuilding training. Then high repetition training, considered endurance training. For a physically untrained beginner to train the full strength- endurance continuum, calisthenics training alone can hit all three repetition ranges. Focusing on the push-up for an example, there are many variations of the push-up one can perform, all with varying difficulties. One could switch between push-up variations of different difficulty levels to perform all three repetition schemes. If the beginner is not yet strong enough for different variations, they will start with what they are capable of and likely only perform a few reps, hence low repetition benefits are gained. When the beginner increases in strength, they will be performing the intermediate repetition range, gaining hypertrophy. When they increase in strength and hypertrophy further, they will be performing high repetitions, increasing in endurance. Dimitropoulos 3 Scholars have found that calisthenics training can achieve more than just the strength- endurance continuum. The Faigenbaum and Meyer 2000 study tested to find the possibility of injuries occurring in children and adolescents that participate in resistance training. Their participants engaged in a combination of low and high repetition training as well as body weight training, which is calisthenics. They also documented numerous physical training benefits in their participants over the course of the study. Benefits included muscular and cardiovascular benefits. Although not their objective, Faigenbaum and Meyer showed in their 2000 study that resistance training can achieve cardiovascular benefits depending on how the training regimen is modified. The study does not display the training regimen that Faigenbaum and Meyer constructed, so it cannot be argued that calisthenics-body weight-training lead to the cardiovascular benefits alone. It can be argued that a physically untrained person does not need to stray from calisthenics training in order to achieve some cardiovascular benefits. One of the largest, if not, the largest part of calisthenics training is called circuit training. One can perform circuit training in many ways, and it is particularly easy to perform using calisthenics exercises. Circuit training consists of switching between a string of exercises with little to no rest in between. Completing all exercises means completing one circuit. One should then continue to complete the same circuit several more times. Stamina poses a limiting factor in a circuit training workout. Without the proper cardiovascular endurance, each exercise and each circuit will feel more and more difficult, hence building cardiovascular endurance, or stamina, each time an exercise and a circuit is completed. By adding circuit training to the regimen, calisthenics training achieves the strength-endurance continuum as well as cardiovascular work in the same instant. Dimitropoulos 4 Building off of Faigenbaum and Meyer, Alberga et al 2015 showed that cardiovascular benefits are actually increased when combined with weight training. They had four groups of obese participants performing different training regimens. A weight training group, a cardiovascular training group, a combined group, and a non-training group. They measured for decreases in SAT fat and in the ApoB/ApoA-1 ratio, a major contributor to cardiovascular disease. Weight training showed some decreases, cardiovascular training showed much higher decreases, but the combined group showed significantly more decreases. Therefore, if a person wants to focus more on achieving cardiovascular benefits, then calisthenics training may be even more in their interest since it easily combines resistance training with cardiovascular training using circuits. Instead of trying to find good ways to implement both weight training and cardiovascular training into their routine when they also have other commitments, doing solely calisthenics workouts will potentially help an untrained person build muscle and lose fat (along with decreasing risk of cardiovascular disease) as effectively as possible without exploring different methods of training. Patricia A. Duester talked about the application of calisthenics training by the Navy SEALS in the book Navy SEAL Physical Fitness Duester lists that the Navy SEALS use calisthenics training for muscle strength, muscle endurance, as well as flexibility. writing adds flexibility to the list of calisthenics benefits. The writing in the calisthenics chapter of this book talks about how the Navy SEALS use calisthenics specifically to train the strength-endurance continuum, supporting the earlier statement. Duester does not talk about the cardiovascular benefits of calisthenics training, but that is because the Navy SEALS choose not to use it for that, not because it bring any. Bodybuilder Ross Edgley sited Duester in an article talking about how calisthenics can be used to target specific goals as well, Dimitropoulos 5 giving more support to the idea that a physically untrained beginner does not have a high need to venture outside of calisthenics training to achieve the spectrum of health benefits when starting out. The purpose in this writing is not to say that calisthenics training is the only type of physical training that covers the spectrum. Akhtar et al 2013 showed that yoga training also achieved all the benefits listed thus far in their participants whom underwent a one year yoga training program. In attempting to decide which single type of training is the best for untrained beginners, the argument is debatable between all types of training. This writing has chosen evidence in an attempt to support calisthenics, but scientists should conduct further research in order to make a decision a fact. To take this to the next level, scholars should conduct comparative studies. For example, it has now been realized that calisthenics and yoga both achieve the complete spectrum of health benefits, but which one completes them stronger? Does yoga or calisthenics bring a higher increase in muscle strength? Which one burns more calories? Many tests could set these training methods apart. In the end, for someone who is a beginner to working out, and has decided to begin working out for the purpose of overall health, they should consider beginning with calisthenics body weight training. With the evidence above, it is reasonable to predict that calisthenics training is the best single type of exercise for physically untrained beginners to achieve the full spectrum of health benefits. It does not require equipment or a gym membership. There are exercises of varying difficulty so they can challenge themselves as much as they wish. Calisthenics easily trains the full strength-endurance continuum, and cardiovascular work is effectively achieved using circuit training. The workouts do not normally last too long, relative to other styles of training, so it is easy for one to incorporate workouts into their daily life as they Dimitropoulos 6 get used to creating time for exercise every day. As a beginner does more research, of course they should start incorporating more than one style of training into their regimen, as that is the best way to stay healthy in the opinion of the scholars. Dimitropoulos 7 References: Akhtar, Pooja, Sujata Yardi, and Murtaza Akhtar. Effects of Yoga on Functional Capacity and Well  International Journal of Yoga 6.1 (2013): 76. Web. Alberga, A. S., D. G. P. Kenny, G. S. Goldfield, S. Hadjiyannakis, R. Gougeon, P. Phillips, J. Malcolm, G. Wells, S. Doucette, J. Ma, and R. J. Sigal. Effects of Aerobic and Resistance Training on Abdominal Fat, Apolipoproteins and High-sensitivity C-reactive Protein in Adolescents with Obesity: The HEARTY Randomized Clinical International Journal of Obesity 39.10 (2015): 1494-500. Web. Build a Physique That Looks as Good as It  Joe Muscle & Fitness 77.4 (2016): 92. Web. Campos, Gerson, Thomas Luecke, Heather Wendeln, Kumika Toma, Fredrick Hagerman, Thomas Murray, Kerry Ragg, Nicholas Ratamess, William Kraemer, and Robert Staron. Muscular Adaptations in Response to Three Different Resistance-training Regimens: Specificity of Repetition Maximum Training  European Journal of Applied Physiology 88.1-2 (2002): 50-60. Web. Edgley, Ross. calisthenics: body-weight training can work as well as weights to build a physique that looks as good as it Joe Muscle & Fitness. 4/2016. 92. Faigenbaum, A.D., and Myer, G.D. Pediatric Resistance  Current Sports Medicine Reports 9.3 (2010): 161-68. Web. Field, Tiffany. Yoga Clinical Research  Complementary Therapies in Clinical Practice17.1 (2011): 1-8. Web.