Student 1 Student Richard F. Gaspar ENC 1102.703 3 May, 2017 Change the Lasting Power of PTSD Post Traumatic Stress Disorder is a severe mental illness that is most common after an individual undergoes an event that is severely traumatizing or endangers their life (Dockens). Post Traumatic Stress Disorder is a very common disease that has been diagnosed in as many as 540,000 veterans, yet only half seek out and receive treatment (Dockens). Unfortunately, this disease can come with a variety of symptoms that most victims deal with every single day of their lives. Some of the symptoms can include, but are not limited to confusion, nightmares, anxiety, depression, and even loss of motivation or focus (Dockens). Simple, everyday events could trigger a person with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder to have an anxiety attack or even relive a part of the traumatizing event (Dockens). Sadly, tragic episodes such as these could lead to the victim distancing themselves from people who could provide help such as family members and friends. However, there are several organizations whose goals are associated with the disease. The stakeholder that will be discussed is that of the Wounded Warriors Project. The Wounded Warriors Project has created a variety of programs that are focused on the recuperation of veterans upon their return home. This work with veterans branches from physical injuries to mental ones, such as post traumatic stress disorder. Essentially, the Wounded Warriors Project works to provide public support for the soldiers that are somewhat left behind Student 2 after their service and their goals could be easily met through the help of everyday individuals willing to offer their time or support. Furthermore, the Wounded Warriors Project is a very well functioning organization that has done extensive work within the veteran community, striving to help those with any form of trauma from previous service. Whether the injury is physical, mental , or emotional, the Wounded Warriors Project has some sort of program or rehabilitation center to help any veteran recuperate and return to their lives. Their services could range from something as miniscule, but essential, as a therapy session to something as monumental as building smart homes for severely wounded soldiers to help them with simple everyday activities (Dockens). Additional services that the project offers to Post Traumatic Stress Disorder victims includes the Combat Stress Recovery Program and the Warrior Care Network. The Combat Stress Recovery Program engages veterans in outdoor experiences that will physically push them to their limits while also connecting them with fellow veterans who are in similar mental states (Combat Stress Recovery Program). In order to begin the program, most are required to experience project odyssey first. Project Odyssey is essentially an outdoor trip, over the span of a few days that allows victims to engage in a variety of activities, such as hiking, rope courses, as well as many others to fully engage the participants both mentally and physically (Combat Stress Recovery Program). Furthermore, there is also the Warrior Care Network, which is the first of its kind. It is a program that is partnered with several hospitals and medical centers to, not only connect patients, but also to provide exceptional care to those who may not have gotten the best treatment, or any at all (Dockens). This program is designed to focus on family growth and help for victims with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, traumatic brain injury, as well as many other conditions (Dockens). Student 3 An additional resource that the Wounded Warriors Project offers to victims is the veterans crisis line. Since depression is a very common symptom of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, many of the victims of the disease have suicidal tendencies and this hotline provides a source that they can talk to. This hotline is not only a valuable resource for the victims of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, but it is also open to any family members or friends of the victims who would like to talk about their experiences and options for help. One of the more attractive aspects of this hotline is that it is completely confidential and is open twenty four hours, seven days a week (Docken). Unfortunately, despite all that this organization has to offer countless veterans who are in dire need of their support, it is not enough. On any given night, in any city of any state there are countless homeless people sleeping on the streets. However, many do not know that about 50,000 of them are veterans (Veterans Statistics). Not only is it unfortunate enough that the rates of homeless people within the country are increasing at an alarming rate, it is even more disappointing that so many of these people that need our help are the same people that signed up to fight to protect this country are turned away when they need the same devotion that they offered to this country. Homelessness a vicious trend that is common among these victims, as well as the tragic act of suicide. Something as simple as a conversation with one of these individuals on the street could encourage them to believe that they are not alone, however society is not as concerned with social interaction as much as social media. The primary goal of the Project is to help veterans in any way possible and to reduce the number of veterans that are so negatively affected by their heroic and honorable service in the United States Military. Commitment and time is a simple donation that could be made by Student 4 everyday people willing to help. Whether you are a member of a big organization such as the Wounded Warriors Project or a small group of people trying to make a difference, helping in any way can have a large impact on an individual and even a community. Just by slightly becoming involved in any type of program or even a single day, a veterans life could be greatly improved. Whether that involvement is something as generous as helping build a wounded warrior a smart home, or something as simple as a fundraiser or even volunteering some time, it will make an impact that will not go unappreciated. Student 5 Works Cited Combat Stress Recovery  Warrior N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Dockens, Christopher. Wounded Warrior Homes -  Transitional N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Nordqvist, Christian. PTSD (Post-Traumatic Stress  Medical News Today. MediLexicon International, n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. PTSD Changes  Military with PTSD. N.p., 29 May 2015. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. PTSD: National Center for  How Common Is PTSD? - PTSD: National Center for PTSD. N.p., 05 July 2007. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Veterans Statistics: PTSD, Depression, TBI,  Veterans PTSD Statistics Statistics: Depression, TBI and Suicide. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.