Gil 1 Ariana Gil Professor Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.078 4 May 2017 Marijuana Movement Marijuana has been around since 2700 BC and was used as a method of medical treatment until the 1900s (Boerner 28). During this time the Mexican revolution happened and many Mexicans began to immigrate into the US; many of those people where frequent marijuana smokers. This frightened people and made people believe that marijuana would make them like the Mexicans, causing a ban on marijuana (Boerner 28). Even since, marijuana has had a bad reputation and was seen as a terrible drug that could ruin your life or even kill you. Marijuana has been misunderstood for so many years and people have been slowly noticing that. Marijuana has been legalized in several states but still remains to be federally illegal. Organizations that engaged in getting marijuana legalized like the National Education Association need to get engaged and advocate for the legalization, which will benefit both the NEA and the cause. The debate on whether marijuana should be legalized started to become a popular thought once Colorado became the first state to legalize recreational marijuana in 2014. Since then, states began to notice that economy went up and arrests for marijuana went down. After just one year of passing amendment 64, the state totaled over $996 million dollars in sales and the arrests for marijuana possession are still dropping but is currently at 84% (Mundah 1). Not only did marijuana benefit the state financially but it also benefited the health of people. Before becoming recreationally legal, marijuana was only medically legal for patients that suffer from Gil 2 chronic pain and as a way to treat cancer patients. There have been many studies that demonstrate that marijuana does help medically but still, medical use is questioned. My position on the legalization of marijuana is that it should be legalized in every state and federally legal. Legalizing marijuana is still currently rising the economy within those states so why it be legalized in every state. Not only would it help the economy but it will help the health of many people who suffer from chronic pain and cancer/disease. In a study, animal models were given marijuana as a way to treat types of cancer and researchers concluded that the chemical CBD, a chemical found in marijuana, inhibited the progression of glioblastoma, breast, lung, prostate, and colon cancer (Birdsall). Studies like this motivate pro marijuana organizations like NORML to push and advocate for the legalization of marijuana in order to help patients in need. The NORML organization states that once marijuana is legalized it would eliminate the crime and violence that there is in the black market for marijuana and get replaced with regulated shops where people could buy marijuana at a safe place (National Organizations for the Reform of Marijuana Laws). Organizations need to become involved like NORML in order to get the legalization of marijuana widespread across the US. The National Education Association is an association that needs to become engaged in the legalization of marijuana. The NEA started in 1857 when educators decided to come together to make one voice in getting public education. During this time, education was a luxury and most children did not get the opportunity for an education until 1996 when NEA joined with the American association and now education is a right for every American child to have. The goal of this association Is, advance the cause of public education and to unite our members and the nation to fulfill the promise of public education to prepare every student to Gil 3 succeed in a diverse and interdependent world All they want is to see each student succeed and to be prepared for the life ahead of them once they enter the world. If the NEA started to become engaged with the legalization of marijuana, the association will only get closer to their mission. The mission of the association is to prepare students for the future with the use of education and educating students about marijuana use is an important subject that needs to be taught. Schools now are teaching underage students how to drink safe so the difference in teaching them how to use cannabis safe if both of those scenarios are illegal? Nothing. Both lessons are for the purpose of preparing children for what the future presents them. Educating students about marijuana might even give students the idea of working for the marijuana business as a career choice. If the NES became more engaged, students will use marijuana safely and might even see themselves to be working in the marijuana industry in the future which only means that students will prosper. This will also help the legalization of marijuana in the sense that it will help it become more socially acceptable. If students are getting educated about marijuana they could spread the information and show people that there is a way to safely consume cannabis. In order to get the legalization of marijuana to happen, there are some steps that the NEA need to take. First, schools, that are in states that have legalized marijuana, should allow special guest speakers into the classrooms and let the speaker give a lesson about using marijuana safely. Second, schools, that are not in states with legal marijuana, should start opening up some type of clubs that advocate for the legalization of marijuana. This would help the students feel like they have a voice and they could give information to other peers/parents. lastly, schools should give students the opportunity to write a letter to their state legislator by just simply turning it into the Gil 4 office. a much more accessible way for students to state their reasons as to why they believe marijuana should be legalized and send it directly to the legislator. In conclusion, marijuana should be legalized throughout all the states and the National Education Association should get involved in this process. By getting engaged, the NEA will receive benefits and will only get closer to their goal of every student being prepared for the future. Marijuana helps people and so does the NEA so why they work together? Gil 5 Works cited Birdsall, Shauna M., Timothy C. Birdsall, and Lucas A. Tims. The Use Of Medical Marijuana In  Current Oncology Reports 7 (2016): 1. Academic OneFile. Web. 31 Jan. 2017 Boerner, Heather. Medical Cannabis: From Legal To Illegal To (Sometimes) Legal  Physician Leadership Journal 3.6 (2016): 28-30. Business Source Premier. Web. 31 Jan. 2017 NORML. NORML Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. Web. 15 Feb. 2017 Accessed Mundah, Eric. Colorado Claims Marijuana Legalization InsideSources. 14 Feb. 2017. http://www.insidesources.com/marijuana-legalization-benefits/. Accessed 5 May 2017. National Education Association. vision, Mission, and NEA. http://www.nea.org/home/19583.htm. Accessed 5 May 2017.