Student 1 Student Professor Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 5 March 20 An Increase in the Federal Minimum Wage to $15. The topic of an increase in minimum wage to $15 can be viewed as a delicate policy battle, where some people are pulling the baton for an increase while others are pushing to stop such an action. It is principled that increasing the minimum wage to $15 will bring about benefits to the working population thereby improving their lives. However, the real notion that should be questioned is how long would such benefits will last. On this account, one may find that increasing the minimum wage from $7.25 dollars to $15 dollars would be a drastic hike in labor price, making it impossible for businesses to meet the wage range (Hoffman 15). Resultantly, a minimum wage increase may cause more harm than good to the entry Level working population. By definition a minimum wage is the lowest rate of pay at which a worker may be legally employed (Richard 1). Usually, it is earned by entry level workers who are low skilled or have little education entering the workforce (HeathFeild 1). Thus, increasing the wage rate of these workers would lead to unemployment. This is because when the minimum wage goes up, employers will be forced to either pass costs on to consumers in the form of higher prices, or cut costs elsewhere, leading to the loss of jobs for  the minimum Some people think that increasing the minimum wage will help to improve the poverty margin; however, Economist Sabia Joseph has proven this thought to be a myth, showing that individuals in economic hardship do not work so they benefit from higher  of the minimum Similarly, a minimum wage increase can have a disastrous Student 2 domino effect on the economy, decreasing profit through an increased production cost. Unless employers are ready to build a bunch of wage compression into its system, the impact of the minimum wage increase is going to ripple through entire  (Giardina 2). Although Fightfor$15 claims that the current minimum wage is unjust and an increase would bring employees many benefits, an increase to $15 is not feasible for the economy, since it will create unemployment, poverty and harm the economy. Most often, it is people who are unaware of the facts about a minimum wage who pushes for such an increase, therefore, educating these individuals on the long term effects and ways to move out of the minimum wage range would help them to understand why this is such a bad idea. One major factor that makes increasing the minimum wage to $15 so detrimental to entry-level workers is that it will cost jobs. Striking up the minimum wage to $15 brings extra production cost, which could be difficult for employers to offset. Resultantly, this cost is reflected onto their workers. According to Employment Policy Institute, employees earning the minimum wage are mostly young, low skilled individuals who may have just finish college working in small businesses the minimum So if the minimum wage increases, these small businesses are to either pass costs on to consumers in the form of higher prices, or cut costs to less full-service and more customer the minimum When this happens, fewer jobs become available for the entry- level workers, meaning less working hours or unemployment. Studies show that every 10 percent increase in the minimum wage, teen employment goes down by 1.5 (Mantel 71). To add to this point, an increase to $15 may make it even more difficult for these low skilled workers to enter the workforce as their pay increases with their responsibilities remaining the same. Economic models of competitive firms shows that wage increase reduces demand for Student 3 labor by firms and the least valued workers are fired first and hired  (Burkhauser 16). This goes to show how much advocates such as Fightfor$15 should consider these unplanned outcomes when pushing for such a cause. Not only does a minimum wage increase to $15 cut jobs but also it does nothing for the poverty margin. Economist Sabia Joseph proved in research that increases in the minimum wage had no relationship to the poverty  of the minimum Since individuals who are in economic hardship do not work, they benefit from higher wages. Additionally, the fact that poverty is dependent on a income, minimum wage earners are not necessarily from poor families (Neumark 144). Studies conducted by economist Gramlich shows that most low-waged workers are teenagers from high-income homes. about 13.2 percent of workers earning less than $7.25 were in poor (Nuemark 145). Therefore, increasing the minimum wage has little to no effect on poverty. One may say that the minimum wage is not only earned by teenagers and that it can improve the life of older entry level workers. While this is true, it may not be for a long time. A logical reasoning is because minimum wage increase causes unemployment for entry level workers, it has a domino effect in the long run, declining income, which triggers an increase in wage pros and With this in mind, one can see how the minimum wage increase will ultimately attack the poverty margin. Another important factor to consider when dealing with a minimum wage increase is the businesses that would have to pay that increased price for labor. A minimum wage increase would hurt businesses and force companies to close from higher production  wage pros and The reason for this is simple, as labor price increases, production costs are going to increase and businesses would have to find a way to deal with these cost increases. Student 4 Sadly, some businesses may not be able to meet that new cost while maintaining everyday business activities (Burkhauser 18). In addition to laying off workers, another way some businesses deal with increased labor prices are through higher prices on consumer goods. A study done by Purdue University found that raising the wage of fast food restaurant employees to $15 or $22 per hour would result in a price increase of 4.3% and 25% respectively, or a reduction in product size between 12% and the minimum Now one can assume that higher prices for consumer goods coupled with higher unemployment rate brings less profits for employers. This is because an increase in the price level will reduce real income and purchasing power for  (Neumark 225). Hence, people would have less money to spend at businesses for the same amount of goods. Another consequence can be increased inflation from an increase in the wage floor. Higher incomes means more money to spend, which in turn would cause prices of good to go up and decrease (Neumark 225). When dealing with the minimum wage, it is important to look at it from all standpoints. While it would benefit many employees through higher income, it can be considered a win or lose combination. A win for workers gaining an increase while at the same time a lost for those employees losing jobs or higher production cost for businesses. The thing that creates tension between the minimum wage increase battle is understanding the true effects of such a policy. The best way to approach this issue is to gain knowledge of the facts. To achieve this, educational sessions can be done to teach non-engaged stakeholders about why increasing the minimum wage to such a high range would create economic problems. With this approach, more people can become engaged in the issue. A further step in combating this issue is by encouraging these newly educated persons on ways to move themselves out of the minimum wage range, such as furthering their education or advancing their skills. However, the fight does not end here; Student 5 training programs can be developed to enhance entry-level skills, moving them up the working ladder. Back to school programs can be developed to further older entry level education. Non-stakeholders can become engaged by coffunding projects such as impact of the minimum wage on wage  to inform the public on what comes with a drastic increase in the minimum wage. With this, the public would understand that future minimum wage rate can be increased; however, it must only be increased if these economic aspects cannot be affected. (WC 1391) Student 6 Works Cited Bursting Myths About the minimum . Minimumwage.com, Web. 25 March 2017 Burkhauser, Richard V., et al. Who Minimum Wage Increases Bite: An Analysis Using Monthly Data from the SIPP and the  Southern Economic Journal, vol. 67, no. 1, July 2000, p. 16.  Effects of the minimum . epi.org, Web. 14 April 2017. GIARDINA, MICHAEL. Retail, Restaurant Benefits to Feel Pain of Wage  Employee Benefit News, vol. 29, no. 1, Jan. 2015, p. 8. Heathfield, Susan M. what is an entry  The Foundations of Long Careers are Built on Experience, Web. April 8. Hoffman, Saul D. Are the Effects of Minimum Wage Increases Always Small? A Reanalysis of Sabia, Burkhauser, and  Industrial & Labor Relations Review, vol. 69, no. 2, Mar. 2016, pp. 295-311. Mantel, Barbara. Minimum Wage: Would Raising the Rate Be Good for the  CQ Researcher, vol. 24, no. 4, 24 Jan. 2014, p. 73. Minimum wage Pros and . Minimumwage-procon.org, Web. 14 April 2017. Newmark, David. The Employment Effects of Minimum Wages: Evidence from a Prespecified Research  Industrial Relations, vol. 40, no. 1, Jan. 2001, p. 121 Osberg, Lars. Robert Pollin, Mark Brenner, Jeannette Wicks-Lim, and Stephanie Luce, a Measure of Fairness: The Economics of Living Wages and Minimum Wages in the United  Labour/Le Travail, no. 63, 2009, p. 315. Student 7 Sheposh, Richard. Minimum Wage around the  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January. 2016, p. 1-4 Who Benefits from Income Tax  The New York Times, 2016, p. A26