Zakhary 1 Mina Zakhary Professor Alisson Missler ENC 1102 30 April 2017 The idea of Universal Healthcare within America Have you ever thought of how the United States would function under a universal healthcare placement? There is a big chance that you have not considered this and the future of the United States. Universal healthcare usually refers to a health care system that provides financial protection and health care to all citizens of a country where universal healthcare is active. It becomes organized around providing specific packages that include benefits to all members of a given society with the final goal of providing health service improvements, financial risk protection, and improved health overall. As the next face of the United States, millennials and college students need to understand the issues being faced currently within the United States and help provoke new ideas that contribute to the people and benefits the United States. This is why the University of South Florida is expanding the knowledge of visitors during the global healthcare awareness week. In addition, there are multiple ways that people can contribute to bring new ideas and become the change in our adaptable world. Universal health care is not a one-size-fits-all and does not imply health coverage for everyone, however, awareness is vitally needed along with a unified people in order for the United States growth and to make America great again. In continuation, others that oppose a universal healthcare system may argue that universal healthcare would lead to an increase in cost and taxes towards Americans. They argue that in order for a universal healthcare system to be paid for and implemented, taxes must be increased. Zakhary 2 However, it is vital to point out that premiums, unexpected hospital visits, and other medical- associated bills would be covered in better fashion under a universal health care system and can be adjusted to set prices for a more reasonable stand. Many economists and organizations, such as the Physician for A National Health Program, and the American Medical Student Association all agree that a universal healthcare system would save, on average, $125 billion to $400 billion each year. One reason that the current system of the United States is costly is because there remains a patched widespread system of profit who want to change because of the money they are acquiring (Himmelstein et al). This includes CEOs of health insurance companies that take in lumps of administrative costs. When this is combined with other costs such as the sick uninsured individuals, which contribute less to the work force for time they miss because of illnesses that they cannot pay for, thus, resulting in a loss of billions of dollars each year (Hill et al. 91)). According to Lagomarsino et al., many rapidly gorwing nations such as India is in the works of incorporating a healthcare system that acts the same as universal healthcare. Not only this, many countries such as Canada and France have a universal healthcare system incorporated and the United States spends drastically more money on healthcare and has less total citizen coverage when it comes to healthcare. Universal healthcare also leads to the creation of more equal opportunities for those lower class citizens who may be constrained to their standard of living and socio-economic standing. These are a few points that are easily debunked when comparing it to factual evidence in a universal healthcare system. Universal healthcare is different in several aspects when compared to the current healthcare system of America. This should be reflected upon by the people and the government because what type of country would we like to live in? What morals does America represent? If we are willing to not provide healthcare to others just to save a few bucks annually, is this the Zakhary 3 America we believe in? With a universal healthcare system, these values that many Americans have will be more properly placed which proves that a universal healthcare system has potential. With these core values in mind, Americans need to unite to determine the best course of action, not only for the future of America but for the future of us the people. Americans need to begin thinking on a social level about health the same way we do with police services, and education. If public education is easily accepted, why cannot public health insurance be the same? Nobody plans to get hurt or sick, but most people need medical care at some point. Healthcare and insurance covers these costs and provides many other benefits. As the future of America, millennials and younger generations are the people that will make a difference for future (Healthcare in the United States). Spending time and creating genuine thoughts on this issue is one of the best things to do. In addition, many Americans, including millennials and college students, can create awareness of this internal issue by creating advertisements, communicating with local and state government functions, and signing petitions to enact and bring a universal healthcare system to the United States. Health care is a human right. It is the essence of our  time that the American youth take care of its country, instead of not knowing (Healthcare in the United States). We all have a healthcare plan envisioned, if we make our voices heard then our dream can become a reality. This is why the University of South Florida is hosting the global healthcare awareness week. During this week, students, faculty and staff, and other visitors have the opportunity to meet with political figures and other globally credible authors to discuss and raise awareness of healthcare within America. USF is providing gourmet meals throughout the week along with music and a to-do list for visitors to be more globally aware when it comes to healthcare in general. Other ways to be engaged include visiting local and state meetings or events and discuss this issue on healthcare. Zakhary 4 The University of South Florida has multiple government events and sessions where students can discuss and bring forth new ideas in order to help raise awareness for these issues. Ultimately, Many Americans go about their day-to-day lives being uninsured, partially insured, and struggling to maintain their healthcare premiums. This is majorly due to the lack of healthcare implementations within the United States. When compared to other countries such as Canada, Switzerland, and France who have a universal healthcare implemented, this may be something to consider within the United States. Universal healthcare not only can benefit Americans, but will provide stability throughout other aspects such as the standard of living and the economy (Miles et al, 79). This can also directly be in course due to the size of the United States of America. Many people are unengaged or do not know of this growing issue within the United States. This is why the University of South Florida is hosting the global healthcare awareness week. During this week, students, faculty and staff, and other visitors have the opportunity to meet with political figures and other globally credible authors to discuss and raise awareness of healthcare within America. Other ways to be engaged include visiting local and state meetings or events and discuss this issue on healthcare. The University of South Florida has multiple government events and sessions where students can discuss and bring forth new ideas in order to help raise awareness for these issues. As the future face of America, young adolescents and young adults, such as college students, should take a stand to implement something beneficial and have a voice in this subject at hand; be the difference in creating a better America for the future. Zakhary 5 Works Cited Healthcare in the United  Healthcare. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Hill, John W., Angela N. Aneiros, and Paul Rayford Hogan. Law and the Healthcare Crisis: The Impact of Medical Malpractice and Payment Systems on Physician Compensation and Workload as Antecedents of Physician Shortages-Analysis, Implications, and Reform  U. Ill. JL Tech. & (2010): 91. Himmelstein, David U., and Steffie Woolhandler. A national health program for the United States. A  N Engl J Med 320.2 (1989): 102-108. Lagomarsino, Gina, et al. Moving towards universal health coverage: health insurance reforms in nine developing countries in Africa and  The Lancet 380.9845 (2012): 933-943. Miles, A., et al. New perspectives in the healthcare  Journal of Evaluation in Clinical Practice 6.2 (2000): 77-84.