Feyas 1 Victoria Feyas Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 30 April 2017 Abusing Adderall: Effects on the Human Body Adderall was created in 1996 and has been used ever since to treat diseases like Attention Deficit Disorder(ADD) and Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder(ADHD.) After the introduction, people began to abuse the drug by taking it without prescription or need. This problem is seen largely in college students and as time has gone by the abuse of Adderall on college campuses has inflated dramatically. Students rely on this drug to keep them focused and awake to study harder and longer for exams. (Moneer 3) Although Adderall may seem like a magic pill, it is proven to be a highly addictive drug and one that inhibits creativity in people who are not prescribed it. Addiction is a serious topic, and is something that some people struggle with for their entire life. Numerous scholars have conducted research on addictive properties and within these studies, researchers prove that Adderall has a variety of negative effects on the body, ranging from addiction to strokes. In, to Osman Moneer proves that Adderall, or as the kids are calling it these days, is not only chemically addictive but people can also become addicted to the outcome of taking the drug. (Moneer 4) Because Adderall is known to keep people awake and focused for a lengthy period, a tired college student or an overworked employee may think they discovered a magic pill. The dilemma with this is that Adderall was not created for everyone to take, hence why one is supposed to have a prescription to take it. Adderall contains amphetamine, which is the same addictive substance that can be found in speed. Feyas 2 It is clear, that in addition to addiction, mental capability is also impaired with Adderall usage. While some researchers disagree on what exactly is impaired, everyone agrees that there is a problem with full brain function while under the influence. For example, in Martha we Enhance Cognition with Adderall, do we Sacrifice Farah states that while creativity is not impaired, convergent tasks, such as being able to answer a yes or no question correctly, are impaired. (Farah 2) views differed with other researchers like Moneer who believe that Adderall hinders creativity of those who take the drug without need. Whether through cognitive thinking or creativity, Adderall is forcing the user to lose potential brain power for hours on end. Side effects and addiction are not the only negative parts of Adderall usage among people who do not need it, an underground black market has been created for the selling of the drug. College campuses are a good place to find one of countless dealers, and when students were asked if they knew anyone who dealt Adderall or took Adderall without prescription one in three answered yes. (Smith 1) This black market is one that is typically ignored by administrators and never talked about. (Smith 1) Students entering college are forced to take courses on alcohol and marijuana but no one ever talks about Adderall and the life altering effects it could have on a person. If students become addicted in college, they could struggle for the rest of their lives trying to outgrow it. Students come in unaware of the dangers and hear all of this hype from older students who have used the magic pill to stay awake 48 hours and ace their finals and they get this idea in their head that everyone else is doing it, why they? Then in a blink of an eye they are sucked into the whirlpool and cannot seem to find a way out. If students were informed of the dangers of the drug, maybe there would be less illegal use of it. Few scholarly researchers claim that Adderall is not addictive and this is because their arguments are demolished by the amount of studies that have proven addictive qualities, among other side effects. Research has also proven that people may experience multiple other side Feyas 3 effects such as headaches, body aches, shakes, etc. Overall, Adderall is a highly addictive, controlled substance that should remain controlled. People of all ages should be made aware of how addictive it is and what other side effects it may cause if taken when not prescribed. Feyas 4 Sources Cited: Farah, Martha J., et al. we enhance cognition with Adderall, do we sacrifice creativity? A preliminary Psychopharmacology, vol. 202, no. 1-3, 2008, pp. Moneer, Osman, et al. Addicted To  Columbia Undergraduate Science Journal 9. (2015): 8. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Smith, Kyle. Try This At  Suzlon Energy Limited SWOT Analysis 62.25 (2004): 87-88. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Stolz, Stephanie. Abuse: Regulating the Academic Journal of Law and Education, vol. 41, no. 3, July 2012, pp.