Almeshhen: 1 Name: Faisal almeshhen Composition April 23 Social Media Influence on Politics In the age of globalization, people utilize specific tools to share their thoughts and shape the world for better. The impact of social media is tremendous, considering the information flow and its effect on citizens. However, politics had to adapt to new trends because the increased awareness regarding all political movements and events that occur in the world made it harder for those figures to avoid public resonance so that they have to behave in an appropriate manner all the time. To investigate the direct impact of social media on politics, the research question was established regarding how does social media affect our politics. The study revealed the fact that social media websites connected millennials with the political system, making them engage, aware, and informed after all. Millennials are getting older so that their interest in politics increases because they have to vote and deal with the current stance of the issue. Today, they are more involved in any political system because of social media while that is the hub for any political revolution or movement in the 21st century (Fromm par. 2). Social media shaped the way people express their thoughts, provoking a resonance faster that the regular media (Bui 90). Such participation led to the appearance of fake news so that people try to manipulate public consciousness and support the view that is beneficial to them. On the other hand, even though there is a lot of misinformation and social media sites publish information that the traditional Almeshhen: 2 media would not publish. For example, traditional media is profoundly affected by political pressure releasing news for propaganda purposes while it is up to social media activists to provide a credible information that is based on critical evaluation of events and original thoughts regarding issues that occur in the world (Bui 104). In social media, unlike the traditional media, you can fact check anything, by going to multiple sources, which makes the users of these sites aware of what is happening. Such possibility is widely accepted, and Millennials utilize it to evaluate current events, which increases their engagement, awareness, and critical thinking. Social media influence got even stronger in the last decade because all the main political regulations are highly affected by its impact. For example, social media promoted Brexit engagement by presenting valuable information so that all people could participate in the overall outcome of it while the power of social media could also be tracked during the Trump election process (Beer 1). On the other side, researchers which are connected with Arab Spring showed that youth take more active part in the political life because of Facebook while the impact of social media on the gender equality and further regulation of Arab countries and their political systems safeguarded people rights and dignity in a more effective manner (Batorski and 1). However, in both cases, the presence of fake news damaged the overall outcome because some people share biased thoughts to influence those who cannot think critically and cannot research the validity of their arguments. Unfortunately, there is another side of the social media influence that might affect millennials views, thou the treat has to be prevented and avoided. Social media can create an echo chamber, to the people with the same views, which means that people use only specific arguments to support their view and reject all counterarguments that contradict with their beliefs, Almeshhen: 3 creating biased news (Batorski and 1). The biased, false, and fabricated news became a common issue in the social media due to its widespread nature. However, any problems regarding the negative effect of social media can be avoided if the one succeeds to critically analyze the data absorbed and check the background of news that is presented in the social media. A simple check of the credibility of the research and even viewing comments from other people might help millennials to find the hidden truth and understand the true cause of the situation described in the article of their choice. Considering the fact that media possesses a critical influence on views while there are a lot of propaganda present in the darkest times for countries that are engaged in conflicts, for example, it is significant to consider social media as a possible tool to research the needed information and change things for better in response to the pressure from political parties. It should be mentioned that such effort founded human rights movements and changed many countries, making them respect human rights as well as avoid conflicting situations with the public. To summarize the issue, it should be mentioned that millennials are new in politics so that they try to enhance their existing knowledge regarding current issues that are present in politics. However, they have to avoid fake news and biased information to prevent the negative influence of echo chamber and propaganda. Considering the fact that the social media has a strong influence on public awareness, make people engage in problem-solving situations and create a better-informed community, it is important to think critically and double check the credibility and validity of every post that may be found on social media to prevent negative consequences and support movements that might benefit citizens in the long run. Almeshhen: 4 Works Cited Batorski, Dominik, and Ilona Three Dimensions Of The Public Sphere On . Information, Communication & Society, 2017, pp. 1-19. Informa UK Limited, doi:10.1080/1369118x.2017.1281329. Beer, David. Measuring And Engineering Influence On Social Media: What Does This Mean For Political . 2017,. Bui, Thiem Hai. The Influence Of Social Media In Elite . Journal Of Current Southeast Asian Affairs, vol 35, no. 2, 2016, pp. Fromm, Jeff. New Study Finds Social Media Shapes Millennial Political Involvement And . Forbes.Com, 2016, https://www.forbes.com/sites/jefffromm/2016/06/22/new- study-finds-social-media-shapes-millennial-political-involvement-and- engagement/#3ef4fdbe2618.