Student 1 Student Dr. Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Blowing Away Expectations: Why Wind Energy Works Solar energy currently provides the largest amount of renewable energy in the U.S., nearly doubling in size in 2016 (Solar Energy Industries Association). Although there is a large influx of support in the solar industry, the wind industry could provide a much larger source of power through the same number of machines. A shift towards wind energy will provide a larger outlet of power while boosting the economy and compromising to the needs of small organizations and individual households. By promoting wind energy and the revolution it has made within several industries, many non-engaged people can become informed and promote wind energy into a new era. When wind energy was first invented, it used for harnessing power for later use, nor was electricity even invented yet (Bartlett 112-113). The first uses for wind energy were in windmills, as seen in many depictions of Europe more than a few centuries ago. These models propelled boats forward, both on the Nile River, and in sail boats throughout the world (Bartlett 112-113). In the 1940s during World War II, the first well known wind turbine was developed, providing 1.25 megawatts of power, which is the equivalent of about 164 homes (Bartlett 112- 113; SEIA.org). Today, the largest turbine is providing almost a gigawatt of power, almost one thousand times more than the initial amount, and other improvements in the industry can be seen today (Bartlett 112-113). More than 40,000 megawatts of potential power capacity was created between 2007 and 2013 through the production of new wind turbines, allowing for the new Student 2 amount of wind energy potential onshore and off shore to surpass 14 million megawatts (Wind Energy Foundation). In just the first quarter of 2013, wind energy was capable of producing power for over 14 million homes, showing the substantial benefit of this investment by saving the country from using large amounts of coal or oil (Wind Energy Foundation). Through the progress of wind energy this far, the capability to produce energy for even larger portions of the country is very plausible. With the ability to produce a large amount of energy, wind turbines must be extremely large in size. Many people are concerned with their homes being overrun with these unnatural monuments, even though they can enhance a landscape by showing the industrialization of America. Though many may think a wind turbine may be placed anywhere, there must be certain requirements met before a site for wind energy is built. There must be an adequate amount of wind, lease agreements need to be equitable, permits must be requested and secured, transmission capacity must be within certain cost limits, a utility company must be buying the energy created, and there must be investors to finance the site (American Wind Energy Association). Once these elements are secured, the project can be constructed and operation can commence. This endless supply of strict guidelines for construction and placement of turbines, ensuring there is minimal invasiveness to the community and the environment. Additional concern may rise from the community about the harm for wildlife. Many people in society have a high priority in protecting animals and the environment, and the design of wind turbines accommodates this overbearing concern. The industries constructing the wind turbines make them flow with the environment, not risking to overturn the amount of precaution put into placing these machines. The turbines are completely space saving, make no pollution in the air or water, and even cause less bird and bat deaths each year than are caused by Student 3 humans (Anker et. al. 145-178). Many people involved in the development of wind energy turbines are concerned with the safety of the environment and minimizing the adverse effects on humans and animals, so with the potential to minimize or even reverse the effects of fossil fuels, environmental safety is a top priority (Committee on Environmental Impacts of Wind Energy Projects, National Research Council). The appeal of wind energy grows when it is discovered that many large organizations advocating for wind energy are completing campaigns to raise awareness of how wind energy benefits the environment as another source of renewable energy. The Wind Energy Foundation has organized the campaign Renewable to promote a positive message of renewable energy sources (Wind Energy Foundation). They gather businesses within their local renewable energy sector, and have them share their success stories to influencers of renewable energy, and to the public so others can make smart energy decisions. The Wind Energy Foundation also founded with an organization with the goal of recruiting and training individuals to work with renewable energy in rural areas to support wind energy (Wind Energy Foundation). Additional organizations like the American Wind Energy Association have started blogs to report on new findings within wind energy. the shows how wind energy has grown throughout America and how corporations and communities across the country are expanding the capacity for wind (American Wind Energy Association). With growing support in the community for wind energy, and more campaigns to spread the objective of wind organizations, wind energy will continue to be funded and gain attention within corporations. With the possibility of doubt still swirling in the minds of many, there are alternatives to the production to new wind energy turbines that will disturb the community. The first approach calls for the compromise of wind and solar energy in one machine, maintaining constant Student 4 collection of energy on either dark days or days without wind (ENERGY.GOV). This solution could be the most efficient option for environments with fluctuation of light and wind patterns. It involves the installation of solar panels on wind turbines, or the production of smaller turbines with both the blades and the solar panels on the base (ENERGY.GOV). Since these turbines can be smaller yet not completely dismissed from the view of many negative onlookers, another option in through the production of more offshore wind turbines. The U.S. Department of Energy found that by 2030, offshore wind turbines could provide 22 gigawatts of energy of the 300 gigawatts total needed to deliver 20% of the energy (ENERGY.GOV). These turbines can have larger wingspans due to the unlikelihood of disturbance to most communities, and there may be more spread out throughout shorelines due to meeting many of the requirements created by the department of energy. These projects already have taken over the East Coast, West Coast, and the Great Lakes without harm, so influx of future production in underutilized areas is likely (American Wind Energy Association). Overall, wind turbines can take over many areas without causing any harm to the people surrounding the area. Continuation of the production of wind energy is likely, and the smart choice of environmentally friendly citizens. With the lack of pollution and the sustainable options continuously being produced, there should be a large influx of support for the Wind Energy Foundation and all of its supporting groups. As a third party citizen, it is important to understand that a call to wind energy can sustain more homes and offices than solar energy can, while continuing to be one of the least environmentally invasive methods of renewable energy. The power of wind energy can continue to progress through the proper funding in the government and in the department of energy. The most important thing to continue is the support of wind energy in local communities, proposing the construction of wind farms, and allowing the power Student 5 to accumulate and be used for local businesses. Any newly engaged person can support these projects, and continue spreading the growth of wind energy by educating peers, and spreading knowledge about this renewable resource and its potential. Wind energy will make obtaining a larger output of renewable energy possible without harming the environment during the process. This source of energy will soar beyond competing resources with community support and additional funding. (Word Count: 1307) Student 6 Works Cited Anker, Helle Tegner, Birgitte Egelund Olsen, and Anita Wind Energy and the Law: A Comparative  Journal of Energy & Natural Resources Law 27.2 (2009): 145- 78. Web. AWEA - American Wind Energy Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Bartlett, Richard A. Wind Energy in America: A History Robert W.  Pacific Historical Review 66.1 (1997): 112-13. Web. Environmental Impacts of Wind-Energy  The National Academies Press (2007): n. pag. Web. Hybrid Wind and Solar Electric  Hybrid Wind and Solar Electric Systems Department of Energy. US Department of Energy, n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Solar Energy Industries  SEIA Solar Energy Industries Association. Accessed Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Wind Energy Foundation. Wind Energy Foundation, 2017, http://windenergyfoundation.org/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017.