Juan Rodriguez Brenden Jackson ENC 1101 4/20/2017 Final - Joining the Conversation From the beginning of American history, Atlanta was a center of trade and commerce for the Southeast United States. Additionally, Atlanta has often been highly regarded as one of the most important cities in the south due to its development of several genres of music. For Hip- Hop in particular, Atlanta is seen by hip hop heads from East to West as a mecca, in other words a sacred site worthy of worship by Rap/Hip-Hop musicians. Although a lot of good has come since the rise of Hip-Hop in Atlanta in the one of the negatives has been that the abuse of illegal drugs which caused crime rate to increase. This has affected the community of Atlanta and only hurt the delicate race relations that survived, as well as increasing gang violence and the number of drug related incidents throughout the urban centers of the city. While it is believed that Hip-Hop music caused the increase of drugs and violence in Atlanta, in reality the rise of crack cocaine and gang presence can be attributed to this epidemic, though the genre of music cannot. Since the in the United States and in Atlanta alike, drugs have continually been a problem involving many facets, and to this day, the war on drugs has not yet been won. On the other hand, the public opinion on drugs has varied often since the war on drugs was declared by President Nixon in 1971. The variation of public attention towards drugs often depends on several variables; campaigning, presidential initiatives, and competing dramatic events in the are only a few of these factors. Drug users are often found to begin in their youth. Drug use is most reported to begin during adolescence, with almost 25% of teens reporting that they smoked cigarettes and drank alcohol regularly as reported by the NCIB. The sequence of drug involvement, as reported by the Committee on Substance Abuse Prevention Research, has 4 steps: 1. Beer/Wine, 2. Tobacco/Alcohol, 3. Marijuana and 4. with the latter being categorized as tranquilizers or These steps are seen as passages in which most people are introduced to drugs. For this reason the first 2 are known as gateway drugs, since they open the door for experimentation with other illicit substances (Gerstein). Drugs are very popular in southern culture and it has become common place to associate the city of Atlanta with high quality drugs but what many fail to see is the dangers that come from sustained drug usage. One of the most dangerous eras of American hard drug use is referred to as the American crack epidemic. During this time the availability of crack cocaine, a cheaper, higher quality substitute of powder cocaine grew and it became very popular amongst users (Fryer). This epidemic also exponentially increased the number of cocaine related emergency room visits and the number of homicides in the and It also happened that at this same time, Hip-Hop music began to gain popularity across the country and in Atlanta, Georgia in particular. The crack epidemic drastically increased the number of Americans who were addicted to cocaine. This lead to a convergence between music and drug culture and around the and it would be common to see rappers drinking and smoking marijuana or crack cocaine. During the late just as Hip-Hop culture was beginning to flourish, the number of cocaine related hospital incidents increased four times what it had been only less than a decade prior (Gerstein). Not only did this increase the number of cocaine related deaths in Atlanta but it also increased the number of black male homicides, according to a Harvard University study. This rise in homicides began in the early and after crack cocaine had become popular and was swiftly being smuggled into the United States though the Caribbean. Illicit drugs are often seen by users as not very harmful, due to their perception of the effects and dangers of highly addictive substances, when in reality this is not true about all drugs. In an article by the Journal of Psychopharmacology, an international survey of active drug users found that although all substances cause harm, some carry with them benefits. Herbal Cannabis and Skunk were considered across the charts as the ones with least amount of harm and most benefits. Survey takers reported that some of the benefits of Cannabis and Skunk were better enjoyment, higher state of mind and stress/pain relief. Ecstasy and MDMA were also ranked as high benefit, low harm with Sociability the number one benefit reported and lack of relaxation/help sleeping as the harms. Cocaine was reported as having high benefits all around but was measured as the 3 rd most harmful drug. Cocaine has a very high rate of craving and bingeing, meaning the drug has a high addiction rate and the user will usually consume large amounts of the drug at once. Additionally, cocaine has high short and long-term physical risk, as was also observed in the previous study. The drug observed with the highest harm and lowest benefit was tobacco. Tobacco had the highest percentage of long-term physical risk and 2 nd highest risk of craving, making it naturally highly addictive and dangerous to health. Marijuana, Alcohol and Cocaine are all popular illicit drugs throughout Atlanta and have been for many years (Morgan). Though they may have benefits, they are all harmful substances and were not brought into popularity by Rap or Hip-Hop. By the start of the Atlanta was beginning to see the rise of gangs throughout the city. These gangs such as the Bloods and crips were formed as a result of cocaine distribution throughout the city and members joined gangs to be respected and to make money dealing (archive.org). In the year 1990, 5 years after crack cocaine had become available in Atlanta, the Georgia Organized Crime Prevention Council estimate that there were 30 gangs operating within a dozen locations throughout the city. This, along with the street availability of semi-automatic and submachine weapons made detaining gang nearly impossible. This influx of crack cocaine into Atlanta also increased the number of gang and drug related crime. 1984 and 1994, the homicide rate for Black males aged 14-17 more than doubled and homicide rates for Black males aged 18-24 increased almost as In 1989, nearly half of all Fulton county homicide victims are cocaine users and Atlanta police estimated that almost 40 percent of all killings were drug related. Additionally, the crack epidemic was responsible for increasing the number of weapons arrest, the number of children in foster care, the number of low birth weight babies and the fetal death rate (Gerstein). Unsurprisingly, these statistics are much more centered toward African Americans than white Americans. This was a very rough and difficult time in Atlanta history. One that saw homicide and drug abuse at its forefront. With an unprecedented increase in violence and death rates and popularity of street drugs marijuana and crack cocaine, Atlanta was seen as one of the most dangerous cities of the (Grant). Nonetheless, the and saw a growth in the popularity of another outlet, music. One that tells the story of those who lived in the era of crack cocaine. Though there are many negative stereotypes to Hip-Hop, the increase in violence and gangs, commonly associated with the genre, cannot be attributed to music. It can be attributed to the drug abuse that came with the crack epidemic. Since the the violence and drug abuse rate has decreased in Atlanta and the city has regained its strength. Though gangs and drugs are always a problem in modern society, Atlanta has been able to overcome that phase in its history. References Crime In Atlanta, Georgia . City-data.com. N.p., 2017. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. DEA History Book, 1985 - . Web.archive.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. FRYER, ROLAND G. et al. MEASURING CRACK COCAINE AND ITS . Economic Inquiry 51.3 (2013): 1651-1681. Web. Gerstein, Dean R, and Lawrence W Green. Preventing Drug Abuse. 1st ed. Washington, D.C.: National Academy Press, 1993. Print. Grant, Donald L, and Jonathan Grant. The Way It Was In The South. 1st ed. Athens, Ga.: University of Georgia Press, 2001. Print. Grem, Darren E. south got something to Dirty South and the southernization of Hip-Hop Hart, Melanie, et al. and my Exploring the relationship between Musical preferences & purple drank Morgan, Celia JA et al. Harms And Benefits Associated With Psychoactive Drugs: Findings Of An International Survey Of Active Drug . Journal of Psychopharmacology 27.6 (2013): 497-506. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Russell, Damon. Snow On Tha Bluff. Atlanta, Georgia, USA: Fuzzy Logic Pictures, 2011. DVD.