Brautigam 1 Ryan Brautigam ENC 1102 Ms. Lay 13 April 2017 Serve to Protect Police Officers. When that word is said, it holds a different meaning to each and every person by the way they were influenced by society. A major topic in media is that police are over using their authority when doing their job. There is a lot of talk about how race is involved but the discussion is more about how police do their jobs. Many people do not look at the facts when it comes to big issues like this. Most of the time, people will read the head line of a story and move on to the next or when watching the videos online, only watch part of the situation shown on the video, many people that watch these videos are missing what leads up to the video, which leave many people especially college jumping to the worst conclusions about the situation about what police officer was doing. This hold especially true for college due to their amount of use of social media. Many people are blinded by the bad new they see on the TV or on social media. They miss and do not see all the good that police do to make the peoples roads and communities safe. There is a group that was created just because police do not get enough recognition as they deserve for all that they do. That group is called The Blue Lives Matter(BLM). This is not to conflict with any of the other groups that are against police discriminating by race or religions. The group BLM is to high light on all the good that police do to keep us safe. College students should be the ones most to get involved because they are the ones that are going to be living with the changes that would come by making Blue Lives Matters Brautigam 2 more known therefore changing the way people think about what police are here for. There are many ways to get involved in the group, the best way is to look at their website and look at the event they have all over nation including 5k runs and fundraising events. Police have the right to use excessive force if needed to make an arrest for their safety and for others in the community as well as on college campus. Albert J. Reiss explains that force is used the citizen being arrested did resist the policeman; force should be used only if it is necessary to make the (1). This is the rule that police officers go by when making an arrest. Police officers are out there to do a job and when the job is over they have to go back to their families just like the rest of us. The police officers families would like them to make it home safe so when working police officers have to take all precautions when dealing with people that could potentially be dangerous. This is not to say that all police do everything perfect, there has been a few cases when the police have used excessive force when it was not need and in many of those cases the police officer was charge and punished for their actions. Cops have a large responsibility by watching over a large group of people. With that being said, there are about 324 million people in the US(Census) and there is about 2.4 police officer for every 1000 people there are in the about 500 people per police officer. That is a lot of responsibility that is put on them as well as a lot of work to do. That means that about 671 thousand police officers had contact with about 53 million citizens, by contact it means traffic stops, arrest, warnings or any other citizen conflict. In 2012, the Bureau of Labor statistics reported 2600 complaints against police officers. In perspective, that is only 0.049% of all police citizen contact. Out of those 2600 complainants only about 2080 were sustained to be true by the support of evidence. In perspective, that is only about 0.0039% of all of the police contact with citizens(Snuffy). That means that 99.99% of police stops are Brautigam 3 good clean stops without an issue of police brutality. When you look at from this view it makes it seem not as bad as the media make it out to be. The way the media has created a new image for what police officers are about is by using the rhetorical device pathos which is the appeal to emotion and it is used to make people feel bad for people that are being mistreated by the police officers. The main goal of the media is to make the new interesting and give people what they want to hear and what will keep them talking about with others the next day at work. not the new channels faults, at the end of the day they are a business and they do what they have to, to boost their ratings, and in turn making them more money. If we can get enough people to change their views on what police do by looking at the facts and see how much good they do on college campuses and in our then they could do their job more effective without the fear of being targeted. The best way to show how much you care is by going to people or writing about it to share with your other class mates and letting them know that facts about what police officers do and the advantages of having them patrolling out If that effort is successful then we can lift that target of the police backs and not make them feel like they have to hold on to their gun at every moment, which in turn would make them be able to handle many more situation in a claim manner that is civil for the police officer and the citizen. After hearing the statistics and seeing how rare police brutality happens you might be asking yourself, can I help support There is a way that you can be that start of something great, while helping keep your community and campus a safe place. This is especially important for you, being the students of your colleges because you are the future of our society. By joining the group Blue Lives Matter, you would be joining a group to change the perspective of what police officers stand for, back to serve and protect instead of out to harm. The group Brautigam 4 BLM was created in 2016 after the view on cops have change so much so that many police officers did not feel safe going to work. Many police officer feel like they always have a target on their back. The BLM mission statement is: to honor and recognize the actions of law enforcement, strengthen public support, and provide much-needed resources to law enforcement officers and their (BLM). The group wants to gain a much-deserved appreciation for what police officers do for our and around the nation every single day and night. By doing that we could take the target off police officers back and make them feel safe at work again which then would make everyone feel safe in their communities and on campuses. The best way to get involved is to keep up with the events that they hold to raise awareness. To get the word out on more college campus you can call the contact number and you can get them to hold an event either on campus or right next to campus. Just imagine a world without police officers and all the ciaos that would go down? Brautigam 5 Work Cited About  Blue Lives Matter. N.p., 11 Jan. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Police Shootings 2017  The Washington Post. WP Company, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Police Employee  FBI. FBI, 15 May 2012. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Police Brutality Motiongraphic. Dir. Joe Snuffy. N.p., 15 Feb. 2015. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Reiss, Albert J. Police Brutality-answers to Key  Society 5.8 (1968): 10-19. Web.