Kyaw 1 Aung Myo Kyaw Brenden Jackson ENC 1101 9 April 2017 The True Impact of NAFTA NAFTA (North America Free Trade Agreement) is one of the earliest and largest free trade agreement between three North America countries: Mexico, the United States and Canada. NAFTA was proposed by President Ronal Regan in 1988 to the United States Congress and signed by President George H.W Bush in 1992 but it was signed into law by President Bill Clinton in 1994. The goal and purpose of NAFTA is to reduce or eliminate tariff or taxes on exports and imports of the countries and other trade barriers between the countries in order to be the most competitive and profitable free trade agreement in the world. As time have changed and NAFTA becomes over 20 years old, the impact of NAFTA becomes one of the most debatable and controversial topic between participant countries and even in the world economist society since it has both positive and negative impact on the economic growth of the countries. NAFTA has positive effect over negative on the economic growth of the participant countries (especially Mexico) because it can enhance exports, imports, and flow of FDI (Foreign Direct Investment) between the countries. NAFTA has positive impact on economic growth of the participant countries because it can increase the exports and imports of the countries. Since NAFTA is a free trade system which goal is to reduce and eliminate tariffs and taxes on exports and imports between the countries, it allows the countries to exports and imports (trade) freely without any taxes or tariffs and trade barriers. Before the trade agreement, Mexico had used protective trade system with designs to put higher taxes and tariffs on its exports to and imports from other countries. At that time, Mexico was one of the under developed or developing country and most of its economic relied on agricultural products and raw materials because of its protective trade system and lack of technology to produce final goods. Mexican manufactures and farmers could not export their goods to other North America countries because of its protective trade system that imposed Kyaw 2 higher taxes and tariffs on its exports. Mexico has changed its trade system from protective to free trade system as it signed to participate in NAFTA in 1994. Since NAFTA, only exports have increased but also distribution has changed in favor of manufactures and against (Vasquez 162). Moreover, Mexico economy is no longer relied on agricultural products and raw materials. New manufacture industries and factories such as machinery, automobile products and verities of equipment have been established by both domestic and foreign companies and corporations. As a result, Vasquez, the author of Liberalization and NAFTA Had a Positive Impact On Output said that Mexico has become of the top 10 leading exporters and importers of (automobile products and machinery) in the world in 2005 (Vasquez 162). Economists also estimate that 2020, Mexico will manufacture 25 percent of all North American (Amadeo). Not only Mexico but also the United States and Canada economy also grow a lots faster because of NAFTA. According to World Bank, NAFTA can boost economic growth by as much as 0.5 percent a The main area or industries that benefited the most from the NAFTA are automobiles, agriculture and services in the United States. The United States agricultural products exports to Canada and Mexico grew 156 percent in 2015, compared to before NAFTA. Total agricultural products were billion in (Amadeo). Mexico also becomes one of the top export destination for U.S. beef, soybean meal, rice, corn sweeteners, beans and apples because NAFTA eliminated high Mexican tariffs on imports from the U.S. NAFTA also created lots of opportunities for car and automobile parts manufactures from the participant countries. In 2015, most cars produced in America now have parts sourced from all three (Burfisher 136). As a result, NAFTA can increase economic growth of the participant countries as it can increase the flow of exports and imports between the countries. NAFTA also increase the economic growth of the participate countries by accelerating the flow of FDI between the countries, especially in the Mexico. In Mexico, FDI from other two countries can fuel its output and exports growth because FDI from others two developed countries can advanced technology and machineries to Mexican workers and train them to increase their (Casey 8). FDI or multinational corporations from the U.S. and Kyaw 3 Canada usually rebuild their factories and industries with advanced technology in Mexico as they move to Mexico. They also recruit and train Mexico workers in order to operate the advanced technology machineries and increase their productivity. Moreover, FDI from other two developed countries can also improve the most important things for Mexico to grow its economic such as infrastructures, communication and transportation of the county. Vasquez, the author of Liberalization and NAFTA Had a Positive Impact On Output said that the case of Mexico, FDI has an overall positive effect (at macro and micro level) on exports and (165). In return, the FDI or multinational corporations from the United States and Canada can access cheaper labor and natural resources or raw materials from Mexico. As a result, the FDI have opportunities to develop and expand their market, and can have more profit than before (Amadeo). On the other hand, many argue that NAFTA has negative impact on economic growth of the United States because it can increase the number of unemployment in the United States. They believe that the number of unemployment or jobless people in the United States has increased since NAFTA because it allows big corporations and companies from the U.S. to move to Mexico where cheaper labor and resources are existed. It is true that some big companies in the United States moved their factories to Mexico but it does not mean American workers are losing their jobs. In reality, even created more than five million new jobs in the due to increase exports between the countries (Amadeo). Another reason why above claim not true is that most of the recent researches have shown that workers from the United States have more benefits from NAFTA than workers from the Mexico because of wage policies and strict in the U.S. (Cervantes-Martinez 20). Moreover, NAFTA has positive impact on living standard of the workers and consumers from all three participate countries because it can reduce and eliminate tariffs on exports and imports between the countries and make price of the goods and services cheaper and lower. In conclusion, NAFTA has positive effect on economic growth of the countries because it can accelerate moving of exports and imports, and flowing of FDI between the countries by reducing and eliminating trade barriers and tariffs. It can also help the consumers from the Kyaw 4 participate countries to get better and higher living standard. NAFTA can be improved to get more and higher benefit for participate countries by adding more and stricter regulation and more member countries in the future. Kyaw 5 Work Cited Amadeo, Kimberly. 6 Benefits of NAFTA You May Not Even  The Balance. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Blank, Stephen, and Barry E. Prentice. NAFTA At 20: Time To Open The Internal Borders Of North American to  Research In Transportation Business & Management 16. Transportation and Trade Across International Borders (2015): 4- 14. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. DOI: 10.1016/j.rtbm.2015.07.002 Burfisher, Robinson, and Thierfelder. Impact of NAFTA on the United The Journal of Economic Perspectives, vol. 15, no. 1, 2001, pp. Wed 22 Feb, 2017. Casey, Jr., William L. The Effect Of The North America Free Trade Association On Foreign Direct Investment Flows And Economic Development In  International Journal Of Business & Economics Perspectives 11.1 (2016): 1. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rosario, Jorge and Romero-Morett. NAFTA Trade (And Some Extra NAFTA Trade) In Value Added And Its Distribution, 1995-  Journal Of Economic Structures 5.1 (2016): 1-22. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. DOI: 10.1186/s40008-016-0059-2 Kyaw 6 Funk, Mark, Intra-NAFTA Trade in Mid-South Industries: A Gravity  Review of Regional Studies, vol. 36, no. 2,(2006), pp. 205-220. Wed. 22 Feb 2017. Vasquez Galan, Belem I., and Olajide S. Oladipo. Have Liberalization and NAFTA Had a Positive Impact On Output  Journal Of Applied Economics 12.1 (2009): 159-180. EconLit. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.