Ward 1 Robert Ward Mr. Brendan Jackson ENC 1101 09 April 2017 Artificial Intelligence and Automation: Progress in Design A little over two centuries ago, Mary novel Frankenstein introduced the world to a new genre of literature, science fiction. Born from the success of the Frankenstein novel, this genre attempted to capture a glimpse into our would-be future, and presented a wide range of situations, such as using electricity to bring back the dead, and utopian futures set in the sky like in The Jetsons, science fiction has always found a way to astound audience with the new or unusual. With the culmination of our achievements in the world of technology, and thanks to the new digital age, we now are living closer to a science-fiction reality than we could have ever imagined previously. Soon, automated processes coupled with the strength of artificial intelligence, entire factories will be able to produce common goods and even provide create services, all with minimal to no human contact. This leaves us with one question, what kind of changes will we see in the coming years as our current workforce model becomes outdated and outperformed thanks to the rise of automated processes and the implementation of artificial intelligence. Our world will be fundamentally changed after large-scale automated processes and artificial intelligence is implemented and perfected, to the point where the average worker, both skilled and unskilled, purpose could be altered beyond recognition. Labor intensive industries are currently on course to have the most dynamic overhaul in regards to overall changes within the industry as more advanced technology is implemented. Ward 2 Take the Coal Mining Industry, according to a study conducted at the University of Queensland, Exploring the social dimensions of autonomous and remote operation mining: Applying social licence in design, that a fully autonomous workforce reduce the workforce of a typical open-cut, iron-ore mine by approximately 30 to 40 per (McNab 2013). If this could happen in the Iron Ore mining industry, not a considerable reach to consider the similar impact on the coal mining industry. A perfect example of this would be autonomous trucks and hauling vehicles, an entire fleet of drivers could be replaced by one individual at a terminal station overnight using driverless technology. This is obviously an attractive concept for the owners of the mines, without human drivers, not only would fuel costs be lowered do to the efficiency of automated implementation, but human error is also drastically reduced. This is the basis of my first claim, that relationships between humans and machines are becoming more and more knowledge intensive, requiring further levels of education than previously required. A drill that was once operated by five miners, will be operated by one engineer, simultaneously controlling multiple drills throughout the mine. Using this workforce model, smaller amounts of workers are needed to produce the same amount of product, if not more, with cheaper overhead costs. As technology continues to get more advanced, the education behind implementing the technology will also rise, pushing out the laborers lacking that education. There are potential adverse effects that come into play with automation. The more we remove ourselves from the production of our products, the more we distance ourselves from the reality of creating those products. I think that Markl Coeckelbergh said it best in his study The Tragedy of the Master: Automation, Vulnerability, and Distance that in this situation, slave does not become the master; the master remains master, but is what we could call a troubled Ward 3 master, who lacks true dependent on the master for recognition and at the same time cannot step out of the master (Coeckelbergh). As technology progresses, we begin to lose sight of the overall picture. Take for instance the agricultural industry, new automated picking technology could completely eradicate the low wage position picking produce. Accidents become less costly and far less severe in nature, fruit is picked precisely when supposed to be picked, and the massive negative societal implications would slowly fade as those workers searched for work elsewhere. This is inevitable, due to the lower cost of entry in regards to automating entire industries, we must not lose of the entire scope of the picture. Now this could be used to our advantage as a society, but it is imperative that we answer a few ethical questions, such as when do the needs of a few, outweigh the needs of the masses? Using the coal mining industry and the agricultural industry as an examples, it seems to make more sense logistically to have as few hands in the pot as possible, theoretically, this should keep product prices low for the consumer, while maximizing the profit gained by the producers. Technology is created to aide with the completion of tasks. Every tool that has ever been invented, was created solely to make our lives easier in some way, shape, or form. The construction industry has been steadily adapting to technological change for centuries. When the production of steel first became economically plausible, we were no longer limited to small structures, the construction industry was able to build towards the sky for the first time, entirely changing the dynamic of the way we build up urban settlements and cities. As the industry changed with steel, so will it change with the implementation of other advanced technologies. The term Industry 4.0 has been used in recent years to refer to the digitization of the industry as a whole. Entire designs can be built, tested, and modified on demand, all using a Ward 4 digital scape that can be conformed to fit any particular need. With this drastic change in landscape, entire structures can be visualized before the first portion of ground is broken, dynamically changing the way we produce new structures. Integrated Technology (IT) Automation is is defined as the use of an electronic or computerized tool by a human being in order to manipulate or produce a product. Hard automation, such as robotics, is not included in this definition (Dong 2). IT Automation has seen a massive increase in implementation in the construction industry over the past two decades, and has directly increased the performance of this industry across the board. From 3D model usage, to project design and analysis of costs, these technologies are increasing productivity and lowering costs in large portions of the industry. and Yang created an IT index to explain these increases in performance using a scale system ranging from 0 to 10, and show a positive correlation between technological implementations and trends in the industry. For every 1 unit increase on their IT index, the construction firms experienced an increase of 5 and 3% in schedule performance and cost performance, respectively and Yang). This shows that these technologies are drastically improving the performance of the industry, therefore more and more firms will implement these technologies as they continue to improve, effectively lowering the costs of entry for construction firms of all sizes. Automated machines could dynamically change the way new structures are built, and in abstract, he proposed that entirely automated and have to have a human sponsor involved to ensure that everything is done correctly, therefore cutting back on mistakes and human error. This will entirely change the situation of our current work force. Laying concrete has already seen a huge change in its implementation, before water and a variety of ingredients had to be manually added to the concrete mixture, and then applied by someone experienced in working Ward 5 with concrete. Now, entire trucks can perform the tasks that used to be performed by a much larger workforce. The human factor is slowly being removed as more advanced technology is being implemented, and this trend shows no sign of slowing down. Artificial intelligence and automated processes could have a direct impact on factory positions across the US. In fact, robots will perform 45 percent of all factory tasks by 2025, up from 10 percent today (Brown). The workforce needed to produce the current production levels of these factories will be essentially be halved within the next decade. This is a major talking point between researchers and economists from a wide range of industries not just in the US, but also from a global standpoint. We must prepare for this situation now, algorithms have eliminated millions of jobs already, and while this is seen as a negative externality from the laborers point of view, from a business vantage it is seen in a positive light. These technologies will cut costs, allowing producers to produce more of their product with their current resources on hand. This could potentially lead to a large rise in the unemployment within our society, where more people are losing their jobs faster than other industries are growing and hiring workers. Once the technology reaches a certain level, it will be imperative to find a solution that will keep consumers purchasing these products, a situation that will only get more difficult as more and more jobs are lost to automation and artificial intelligence implementation. In conclusion, explored a variety of potential impacts of automation and artificial intelligence on the average skilled and unskilled American worker. Technological progress is inevitable, if not properly implemented, automation and artificial intelligence could potentially destroy our current workforce model, which in the long run, will hurt the consumer, and further impede technological progress. In the next few decades, we as a society will see a drastic change Ward 6 in the way entire industries are managed. We must prepare for the day where our technology passes the production levels of our current workforce. Ward 7 Works Cited Oesterreich, Thuy Duong, and Frank Teuteberg. Understanding The Implications Of Digitisation And Automation In The Context Of Industry 4.0: A Triangulation Approach And Elements Of A Research Agenda For The Construction  Computers In Industry 83.(2016): 121-139. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Maas, Ger, and Frans van Gassel. The Influence Of Automation And Robotics On The Performance  Automation In Construction 14.20th International Symposium on Automation and Robotics in Construction: The Future Site (2005): 435- 441. ScienceDirect. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. McNab,K.,Onate,B.,Brereton,D.,Horberry,T.,Lynas,D.and Franks,D.M.2013. Exploring the social dimensions of autonomous and remote operation mining: Applying Social Licence in Design. Prepared for CSIRO Minerals Down Under Flagship, Mineral Futures Collaboration Cluster, by the Centre for Social Responsibility in Mining and the Minerals Industry Safety and Health Centre, Sustainable Minerals Institute, The University of Queensland, Brisbane. Dong, Zhai, et al. Relationship between Automation and Integration of Construction Information Systems and Labor  Journal of Construction Engineering & Management, vol. 135, no. 8, Aug. 2009, pp. 746-753. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1061/(ASCE)CO.1943-7862.0000024. Ward 8 Works Cited (Cont.) James T. and Li-Ren Yang. Project Performance Versus Use of Technologies at Project and Phase  Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, no. 3, 2004, p. 322. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx? direct=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.117668482&site=eds-live. BROWN, ALAN S. Robots at Work Where Do We  Mechanical Engineering, vol. 138, no. 4, Apr. 2016, pp. 32-37. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx? direct=true&db=buh&AN=119357129&site=eds-live.