Rismay 1 JoLynn Rismay Kristin Gocinski Composition II 21 April 2017 Why We All Deserve to Live and Rest In Peace The topic of euthanasia and physician assisted suicide had been a contested one for many years. The main debate is a moral and ethical one, which questions if a person has the right to choose when they die. Those who seek euthanasia as an option are often seeking an alternative to dying in pain. These people are usually survivors of major accidents like motor vehicle accidents or other traumatic events. Patients also include those who are dying from terminal illnesses, like cancer and HIV/AIDS. Despite many arguments against, persons suffering from an injury that leaves them incapable of living and moving freely for themselves or a terminal illness that leaves them with six months or less to live should be able to receive euthanasia as means of pain relieving before dying. Organizations like the American Psychology Association can become involved by using their knowledge on the human brain and human activity to help bring awareness as to why humans should be able to choose when they die underneath extreme circumstance. By doing this they not only help those who do not have very much of a voice on the issue, they also further their field and open the debate for even more arguments. In 2014, Brittany Maynard was diagnosed with brain cancer and wrote an article on CNN on why she chose physician assisted suicide, question is: Who has the right to tell me that I deserve this choice? That I deserve to suffer for weeks or months in tremendous amounts of physical and emotional pain? Why should anyone have the right to make that choice for Rismay 2 (Maynard). Euthanasia should be made legal everywhere under certain conditions. The reason for this being that in death, a person deserves the right to dignity. Life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness is the most well-known line the Declaration of Independence (US 1776). A life is their own property. That is why when someone dies they have a will, letting the world know who they want their property given too and how they would like their body to be preserved. Some choose cremation, others burial, and even others choose to have their organs donated. Any person should have a right to their own physical and mental well-being. The American Psychology Association (APA) is a scientific and professional psychology organization. Their mission statement on their webpage Our mission is to advance the creation, communication and application of psychological knowledge to benefit society and improve (About APA). They claim to do this through broad development and application of psychology, promoting research in psychology, improving the qualifications of psychologists through high standards of education, and increasing psychological knowledge. Euthanasia is no light subject. Surely, any individual who decides to go through with the procedure should consider it thoroughly. This is where the American Psychology Association comes in. Since they are well known for assessing the human mind and what it can do, the trained psychologists at the APA can help those going through the end of life process by giving them counseling. Also, since the organization is well respected in America, they can release supportive analysis of those who support physician assisted suicide. In turn, this will extend the research of the association and add to its own credibility. There are several steps the APA can take to get involved in bringing attention to making physician assisted suicide more accepted. The 2014 report by the American Psychological Association assessed the relationship between police-community relations as well as other relevant Rismay 3 issues (Belar et al). Since they have experience with bringing attention to current issues like the growing tension between policemen and citizens, to become involved the APA can release a report with the main topic of physician assisted suicide and euthanasia. An extensive study of patients who are aware of, who are considering, and who are undergoing the process of receiving euthanasia can be evaluated. The report would focus on positively portraying the benefits on euthanasia. Often reports like these come up later on many news outlets such as news articles and news channels. These outlets connect the population to the topic and help to educate the public. Another action the American Psychological Association can take is to become involved in the process of psychological evaluation patients must receive before they undergo euthanasia. Many patients who receive euthanasia have tried painful forms of self-harm in the past, such as cutting and attempting suicide through hanging or pills. Speaking to a well-trained psychologist from the American Psychological Association can extensively improve their attitude towards life and help them live happier before they receive the treatment. One might wonder why promoting life would make sense when discussing death. Patients should never feel that they are in a bad place mentally when they are coming close to the end of life. Trauma in life is known to make them depressed, paranoid, and filled with anxiety. These emotions can create distance between a persona and their loved ones. During a crucial time like the end of life, it is important that they regain an emotional and mental connection. Family and spouse counseling can also be an option the APA can help with. By integrating themselves in the lives, they improve the psychological well-being in the patients before they die. The human mind and body are both heavily valued by patients receiving euthanasia and the American Psychological Association. Both see the dignity in the human body and the right that a person has to die in a peaceful, less stressful manner. No one deserves a death filled with pain Rismay 4 and uncertainty, especially those who have already lived through so much of it. The APA is an organization that strives to benefit society and enhance the knowledge of how the human brain works. By becoming involved in the fight to give euthanasia more recognition it deserves in order for it to become legalized, the APA helps give a voice to thousands of Americans, while creating a new field of study for them to become involved in. With the report as well counseling, the American Psychological Association enhance themselves as an institute that advocates for a right to dignity in life and in death, and help reassure people that they are recognized as human begins with choices, especially the choice to do as they please with their own life. Rismay 5 Works Cited Dr. S. P. Kalantri. DYING WITH DIGNITY.260 Indian J. Anaesth. 2003; 47 (4) : 260- 262.2003.27 January 2017. Ezekiel J. Emanuel, MD, PhD; Diane L. Fairclough, DPH; Linda L. Emanuel, MD, PhD. Attitudes and Desires Related to Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted Suicide Among Terminally Ill Patients and Their Caregivers. 15 November 2000. 27 January 2017. Paul J. van der Maas, M.D., Ph.D., Gerrit van der Wal, M.D., Ph.D., Ilinka Haverkate, M.Sc., Carmen L.M. de Graaff, M.A., John G.C. Kester, M.A., Bregje D. Onwuteaka-Philipsen, M.Sc., Agnes van der Heide, M.D., Ph.D., Jacqueline M. Bosma, M.D., LL.M., and Dick L. Willems, M.D., Ph.D. Euthanasia, Physician-Assisted Suicide, and Other Medical Practices Involving the End of Life in the Netherlands, England Journal of Medicine 1996; 335:1699-1705. 27 January 2017. Belar, Cynthia D., Steven Breckler, Katherine C. Nordal, Gwendolyn Puryear Keita, Nancy Moore, and Gary R. VandenBos. 2014 Report of the American Psychological Association. Rep. no. 5. Vol. 70. N.p.: American Psychology Association, n.d. Print. Maynard, Brittany. My Right to Death with Dignity at  CNN. Cable News Network, 02 Nov. 2014. Web. 01 May 2017. <http://www.cnn.com/2014/10/07/opinion/maynard- assisted-suicide-cancer-dignity/>.