Student 1 Student 1 Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 30, April 2017 Project 3 Final Draft Can Parental Involvement have an Impact on Student Education? Many educators believe that parental involvement is essential when impacting a education. is not attained by chance. It must be sought for with ardor and attended to with (Adams). In the article by Cordry, Sheila, and Wilson, Parents as First  Richard W. Riley, U.S. Secretary of Education, insists that, American family is the rock on which solid education can be built. If we as families teach the love of learning in the home it can make all the (Wilson 56). Many scholars believe the first three years of schooling are a critical time for parents to get involved and help the student learn the basic skills needed to tackle a more advanced curriculum. Deficits experienced in these early years often result in students struggling with reading and other academic assignments. Per, the is fundamental Literacy Facts & p.1, 2003), startling to know that only about 65 percent of some students read at or below the basic level, this is a devastating fact about what type of students who may lead our country. Parents should be more involved in their education because the student will have more of a positive attitude and morale, and it will break down such barriers as transportation and culture. There were various statistics and evidence to support why parents should be involved in the education. The facts and statistics in this first article are overwhelming, as Teachers (Wilson 2004), did a release by the Parenting Resource, confirms Student 2 that not only does the student academic achievement improve but so does their attitudes and morale, (57). The Child Trends Databank (1999) gives these statistics about parental involvement; 88% of students completed high school with a diploma, 93% went to a vocational school, 97% graduated with a degree and 97% of them graduated with a professional degree, all had strong parental involvement, (57). Basically, students will graduate with some sort of degree when parents are involved and holding them accountable and communicating with the teacher. Parental involvement will also motivate the student to seek high education. Furthermore, the article Involvement in (2005), confirms that parental involvement is needed and how parents have gotten involved when barriers were removed. Consider the & (2000), study where they involved parents, many who did not have a high school diploma; in the study from 8:45 to 11:30 on designated Fridays with first graders from two different school years. Phase one consisted of parents and students reading poems together aloud in the classroom. Second phase consisted of parents and students reading and singing the alphabet song together. Third phase consisted of parents and students participating in various literacy and math programs. Fourth phase parent-teacher conference. The results indicated that year one 96.5% and year two 94.5% of students had a parent or representative to attend. When barriers were removed, like transportation and babysitting parents showed up, (Menchen 13). I agree with this study because many parents got involved and have set their student on a path to help increase their self-esteem enabling them to successfully compete and advance in the spheres of higher education. If this idea is overlook the consequence could be devastating for our future. Besides this, evidence also argues Debra Malones article A Potential Challenge for Parental Involvement in (2015), supports parental involvement and believes it is Student 3 beneficial to students at all levels, limitations on parental involvement at any grade level can have a negative impact on student academic future, (p. 14, Epstein, 2010). The assumption that some educators find it difficult to foster an environment that is conducive to parental involvement because of culture difference. In addition, Educators and schools should work harder at increasing parental involvement and displaying cultural sensitivity. For example, create a welcoming environment at school, and being sensitive regarding correspondence sent home. Then, when put forth the welcoming effort to involvement parents of diverse cultures, it increases the parents comfort level which often results in increased parental involvement in the education of their student. Finally, the Higher Education (2008), seem to disagree slightly with the assertions of parental involvement. Staff members and administrators of colleges found that parental involvement can interfere with the development of a student becoming autonomous. Some colleges have assigned to prevent parents from attending course registration at orientation (p.8, Shellenbarger, 2005). Here are some of the parent types mentioned in the article, the Blackhawk Helicopter parent who contact college late at night to report a mouse discovered in the student room, (p. 3, ABC News,2005). These Blackhawk helicopter behaviors can be excessive and at times unethical (p.3, Wikipedia, 2007). In other words, these parents have become excessively involved in the education. Autonomous development is stagnated, and students sometime experience failure because of unreasonably parental involvement in their education. Although, I grant my opponent view as a fair, I still maintain that parents involved is needed along with the right protocols and procedures conveyed to the parents. Student 4 In conclusion, most parents, administrators, teachers and even students believe that parental involvement can effectively impact their student education. Parents can encourage students to have a positive attitude towards learning. Many parents have obstacles that prevent involvement, but when these obstacles are removed parents showed up and got involved to help their student. Even helping parents of other cultures understand they are needed, and contributions is expected no matter the culture. I acknowledge that some scholars disagree with parental involvement, because of the negative impact it can have on the education and becoming autonomous. I believe that overly involved parent will see growth and maturity in their student if they trust them more and step back and assess the impact of their involvement on their student education. I am passionate about this topic because of its personal impact on my family. My grandson; has struggled academically, experienced failure, grade retention and self- esteem issues because of the lack of parental involvement in his educational journey. As the 21 century evolves our students need more parental involvement in these first three years before education, if they are to become successful adults. It is imperative that parents, friends, members, and neighborhoods get onboard in a balanced way to help impact each education. If the student is to have any influences or success to tackle a more advance curriculum, then parental involvement is a must in the educations. is our passport to our future, for tomorrow belongs to the people who prepare for it (Word Count:1100). Student 5 Bibliography Cordry, Sheila and Janell D. Wilson. Parents as First  Education, vol. 125, no. 1, Fall2004, pp. 56-62. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=eft&AN=507940146&site=eds-live Malone, Debra. Culture: A Potential Challenge for Parental Involvement in  Delta Kappa Gamma Bulletin, vol. 82, no. 1, Sept. 2015, pp. 14-18. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=a2h&AN=110364691&site=eds-live. Machen, Sandra M., et al. Parental Involvement in the  Journal of Instructional Psychology, vol. 32, no. 1, Mar. 2005, pp. 13-16. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=eft&AN=507973700&site=eds-live.  ASHE Higher Education Report 33.6 (2008): 1-8. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. First Ladies First Ladies.org. Museum/Saxton McKinley House, Education and Research Center,n.d.Web 03 March, 2017 is Reading is Fundamental,n.d. Web. 08 April,2017