Denis1 Ryan Denis 4/26/17 Uddin The Cannabis Argument Over the politicians have been deciding on whether marijuana should be legalized for medical and recreational use. Cities tax legal Marijuana and try to use its profits to help boost their local economies. Contrary to most people believing that the tax on legal marijuana would increase economic growth, with the sales of taxed cannabis it has shown that it is not enough to counter the regulations in place. Therefore, marijuana has more harmful effects on the economy than what some might have originally assumed. When cannabis started to become legal in states like Colorado and California people were more attracted to the newly opened dispensaries in those states. But much to their surprise the cannabis was much more expensive than the cannabis sold on the streets from local dealers. This turned many people away, Arron Rousell says The structure of these regulations tended to benefit the retail outlets uniquely and they marked up prices by 13) With these outrageous prices and a high demand the public then turned to the black market. By not going to the dispensaries and purchasing the legal taxed cannabis this hurts their economy. The government of these cities, such as Denver and Aspen, have spent too much money towards legalizing and regulating to ensure that rules are followed and that certain precautions are in order. Denis2 There are other scholars that say that cannabis is more harmful to the economy than what most people would have originally thought. Another way that cannabis is harmful is it has many health risks. Studies have shown that there is a strong correlation with smoking and lung cancer as well as other breathing and heart complications. When patients are in the hospital they can no longer go and purchase the taxed cannabis from their local dispensaries. When a person gets sick their focus is to get better and they do not want to smoke or consume anymore marijuana. The sick person is going to pay their medical bills and be bed ridden for a while if it is not a terminal illness. When this occurs, it hurts the economy rather than helping it because not only is the person sick but they are not able to work either. Instead of the user going out and buying more marijuana and using it, they are now sick with a bad cough and cannot work or go and purchase any more of the legal substance. This then hurts the economic growth by no more taxed cannabis being sold and the user not going to work to make more money. Even with these convincing arguments saying that marijuana does not have an economical benefit there are many other counter points to the idea. One scholar John Hazlehurst believes that legal cannabis has its rightful place as an opportunity to be an economic boost to some local cities. Hazlehurst says analysis is based on the assumption the money from the sale of marijuana is spent in the local community. It was assumed $80,000,000 income is made from the sale of (page 2) So the $80,000,000 in revenue that was generated was paid back unto the community that supported the businesses helping economic growth. Hazlehurst has done research in El Paso County of Colorado and found some information that shows a boost in the general economy. is what the input/output analysis determined: job creation: 1,100 income creation: $29.83 million annually sales tax collections (state, county and city): $1.76 million tough to quantify underground economies are notoriously difficult to quantify, since the Denis3 usual metrics simply (page 3) These numbers are from what the legal marijuana business has brought to this county. These increased numbers show great economic growth; however, these numbers do little to represent the overall economic growth for the United States as a whole. Through all of research it has been concluded that the sale of legal taxed marijuana has boosted El Paso economic growth through more jobs and higher tax income. In conclusion, it has been found that marijuana has more negative effects on the economy than positive. The rebuttal to this argument does say that cannabis has brought in a percentage of well-earned taxed revenue from the product being sold in dispensaries through the states of California, Washington and Colorado. But contrary to this belief that cannabis is good for the economy it has been shown that there are far more negative side effects to the legalization of marijuana. From the rise of prices in dispensaries and people returning to the illegal black market trade, to the link of the hospitalizations of people who have been long term smokers, causing them to not only spend money on cannabis but to the hospitals as well. It just goes to show that cannabis should not be used as a resource to try and boost economic growth. Denis4 Work Cited Conant, Eve, and Katie Maloney. POT AND THE  Newsweek. 11/1/2010, Vol. 156 Issue 18, P30-35. 6p. 3 Color Photographs., 1 Nov. 2010. Web. 2 Mar. 2017. Finn, Kenneth, and Rochelle Salmore. The Hidden Costs of Marijuana Use in Colorado: One Emergency  Journal of Global Drug Policy & Practice, 2016. Web. 01 Mar. 2017 Hazlehurst, John. Marijuana Sales, Distribution Major Part of Local  Colorado Springs Business Journal (CO), 27 Oct. 2006. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Pudney, Stephen. Drugs Policy: What Should We Do about  Economic Policy., Jan. 2010. Web. Mar. 2017 Roche, Edward J. Federal Income Taxation of Medical Marijuana By Edward J. Roche :: SSRN. N.p., 13 Aug. 2013. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Roussell, Aaron. Field Observations of the Developing Legal Recreational Cannabis Economy in Washington  International Journal of Drug Policy. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017.