Student 1 Student Dr. Richard F. Gaspar ENC 1102 30 April 2017 GMOs Help Sustain the Population With a population of seven billion people worldwide, there is a dire need to increase the food supply in a safe, efficient method in order to continue feeding the rapidly increasing community. A viable solution to this predicament is to implement the use of genetically modified organisms into the agriculture system. Genetically modified organisms, otherwise known as GMOs, are any type of organism whose genome has been modified through gene modification to add traits from (The Facts About GMO). The utilization of GMOs in foods and produce is a practical way to help increase crop yield and therefore make food more plentiful and accessible to those who need it most. By learning about the benefits of GMOs and getting involved in the community, more GMOs will be used in foods to help sustain the growing population. When people think of GMOs they associate it with negative meanings, however; GMO is a technology that has been around for a long time and does not pose a threat to health. Many people believe GMOs are a relatively new science and therefore think GMOs are not a safe food option. Actually, GMOs have been around for over two decades and are used in approximately seventy to eighty percent of the food supply in the United States (The Facts About GMO). GMO technology was introduced in 1994 to the public to advertise tomatoes that have a longer shelf life, and by 1999 GMO foods were taking over the market (GMO Inside). In fact, Student 2 foods deemed such as cotton and corn, are made with ninety percent and eighty percent Genetically Modified technology respectively (Schonwald). However, the use of GMOs is not restricted to just the United States. Over a billion acres across the globe and more than million have been using GM technology in their crops (Chassy 2). Despite the wide use of GMOs in everyday food ingredients people still oppose the technology because they believe it is unsafe for human consumption. In reality, these claims are all false and are due in part to psychological factor. People intuitively seem to distrust GMOs because many people are not accustomed to variation within a species and people have a preference for (Lombrozo). These factors cause people to distrust GMOs and make claims without any evidence to back them up. On the contrary, GMOs are approved by many credible regulatory agencies and organizations. These include the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the World Health Organization, and the American Medical Association (The Facts About GMO). Additionally, there have been several experiments to test if GMOs are actually harmful. The numerous studies have shown that there is evidence of found in using GMOs in food (Panchin and Tuzhikov). This conclusion was determined after a of the data people use to cite anti-GMO claims (Panchin and Tuzhikov). So in actuality, any claims made regarding GMOs being a health hazard are made from misinterpretation of scientific data. The use of GMOs is not only a relatively old concept, but has also been proven to be harmless when used in foods. In addition to the lack of health risks, using GMOs in agriculture allows for population sustainability. With expectations for the global population to surpass nine billion people by 2050, it becomes increasingly difficult to feed the various communities, especially those in poorer Student 3 countries (Rotman 2). The necessity to meet the increasing demands of foods is the exact reasons farmers have decided to use GMOs in their crops. GMOs offer a cheap and practical alternative than trying to organically grow crops. GM technology requires less water and pesticide use compared to organically grown crops which means that it is faster and inexpensive to increase the yield of particular crops. One of many examples of the extreme crop expansion is corn. Since the introduction of GMOS corn has been able to increase from 10 bushels an acre to 120 (Chassy 1). Additionally, genetically modifying organisms can help protect the crop from disease and drought. It has been noted that over 40 percent of rice is lost each year to pest, disease, and flooding, but by using GMOs rice has been able to become resistant to these types of threats (Ronald). A severe increase in the production of food means that different countries around the world will have access to a large supply of food. This is especially beneficial to countries that are known to be home to many people that fall below the poverty line. While places like America and Europe are booming, modern societies, countries in South America and Africa are home to less than ideal living conditions and therefore do not have the means necessary to have access to large amounts of food (Know GMO). The ongoing use of GMOs in food means that communities can and children can up (Ronald). As of yet, there have been no other alternatives to GMOs that have been proven to be as efficient as the current process. The fact is GM technology is a safe, effective way to sustain the population. Because GMOs are beneficial to the community, it is vital that people support its continued role in the agriculture system. The topic of GMOs faces a lot of opposition from people who are scared of imaginary threats. Those who are against GMOs have gained a big following and a lot of support over the years in an attempt to put an end to GMO use. Now, with Student 4 bills that state food products require labels now being passed, the elimination of GMOs is a real possibility. However, their progress is detrimental to the future of society. If GMOs are not to be used in food there is no other solution to aid in feeding the population, which is precisely why it is important to get involved as a community. Support for the use of GM technology will help counteract the progress made by groups against GMOs so it is crucial to act. There are several ways people can get involved and fight for the continued use of GMOs. Protesting peacefully on the streets to use GMOs in food products will assist in giving the group a much needed voice on the issue. Additionally, websites, videos, and social media pages can be made to educate the public on GMOs. If the general public learns that GMOs are not harmful and are actually favorable, protests in opposition to their use may come to halt. There are also simpler actions that can be taken. Creating and signing a petition is a fast yet effective way to call attention to an issue. If thousands of signatures can be gathered on several petitions people will become more interested in the cause and those against the use of GMOs could potentially switch sides. Sharing the petition with friends, family, and neighbors via social media or in person can help spread the word. By getting involved and taking action the future of the population may not be threatened by the ignorance of others. The use of GM biotechnology in the agricultural field to produce GMOs is a process that has been going on in the United States for more than 20 years. Despite its heavy incorporation in food products for a relatively long period of time, people are still weary of its effects and therefore oppose its implementation in produce. However, GMOs have been scientifically tested and proven to have no negative health risks. Additionally, GMOs are extremely beneficial to society. Because GMOs increase crop yield they make it easier to feed the seven billion people Student 5 that are currently inhabiting the planet without causing any harm. If people take action by peacefully protesting, educating the public, and signing petitions, GMOs can continue to be used in the millions of farmlands around the globe. WC: 1326 Student 6 Works Cited Chassy. History and Future of GMOs in Food and Foods World n. pag. Web. GMO Timeline: A History of Genetically Modified  N.p., n.d. Web. 03 May 2017. Know Dir. Nick Saik. Perf. Nick Saik. N.p., n.d. Web. 2 Apr. 2017. Lombrozo, Tania. The Danger Of GMOs: Is It All In Your  NPR, 27 Apr. 2015. Panchin, Alexander Y., and Alexander I. Tuzhikov. GMO studies find no evidence of Harm when corrected for multiple Reviews in Biotechnology (2016): 213-17. Web. Ronald, Pamela. Transcript of The case for engineering our  Ronald: The case for engineering our food TED Talk Subtitles and Transcript N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Rotman, David. GMOs Could be an Important Tool in Feeding the  Technology Review. Technology Review, 16 Sept. 2016. Web. 25 Mar. 2017. Schonwald, Josh. Engineering the Future of Food: Genetically Modified Food and Farmed Fish Will Be More Sustainable and Far Healthier Than Much of What We Eat Today-If We Can Overcome Our Fears and Embrace It. How One Foodie Learned to Stop Worrying and Love Frankenfood. 1 May 2012: n. pag. Print The Facts About N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.