Lamusse 1 Kelly Lamusse Erika Staiger ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Buy a Thermos, Begin a Campus Trend The University of South Florida is one in four-thousand, seven-hundred and twenty-six institutions of higher education in the United States which consumes an enormous amount of coffee on a daily basis. This paper will not target the beverage, but the disposable paper cup in which the drink is served. The New York times posted an article last year to explain the issue regarding these cups; most of them are not This implies that once consumed and thrown away, the cups will not be decomposed by bacteria or other living resources. The main concern for the media conglomerate was how simple the solution was: students should purchase a thermos which could be used over and over again. The thermos is an insulating storage container which keeps a beverage hotter or cooler for a long period of time, and was invented by Sir James Dewar in. This paper challenges each and every student to purchase a thermos which can be refilled with coffee throughout the day. Furthermore, this paper urges the students to refrain from using disposable coffee cups, to educate the community about paper cups, and convince them to buy a thermos. Unfortunately, the environment is already suffering from the excess use of disposable coffee cups. To begin, paper cup production results in a loss of trees. Tarja and Sirje Vares, two Ecological engineers at the Technical Research Centre of Finland explained how more than 6.5 billion trees are killed annually in the United States (1460). Furthermore, when the trees are removed from the ecosystem, they no longer produce oxygen, absorb carbon dioxide, nor can Lamusse 2 they filter ground water (Tarja and Vares 1461). Another consequence of the consumption of paper cups regards the chemicals emitted into the environment. Professor Martin Snyder teaches Humanities and Mythology at the University of Maryland and published a book called The Starbucks Effect in 2006. The novel goes to explain how the word is mistaken to be more easily recycled and not as bad as the plastic cup (Snyder 72). However, most paper cups are with plastic resin for durability and which prevents the ability of the cup to compost and to be recycled (Snyder 71). According to Professor Snyder, the shipping and production of paper cups releases 4 billion pounds of CO2 into the atmosphere annually (71). The students need to consider all ink, plastic, chemicals, water and multiple fuels that go into the manufacture of 16 billion (Snyder 72). More recently, the paper cups have contributed towards another problem; landfills are growing and spreading across the United States. Tarja and Vares discussed how the landfills are spreading across the country and how products such as paper cups are responsible for releasing methane, a greenhouse gas that is 21 times more potent than carbon dioxide (1460). Here at the University of South Florida, most students drink coffee and therefore have the power to help reduce the pollution created from the consumption of paper cups. If the average student consumes two cups of coffee a day, purchasing a thermos will help save 14 cups a week, 56 cups a month and 196 cups a semester. Although an individual can make such a positive impact by using a thermos, very few will. Bill Pritchard, a professor of Human Geography at the University of Sydney, explains how drinking out of paper cups has become a habit for most students (142). Through research, the professor observed why students are unlikely to begin using a thermos; most students believe that an individual effort to change will not contribute to a greater solution (141). In this case, Pritchard is referring to a student who is under the impression that Lamusse 3 switching from using paper cups to using a thermos will not help save the environment; unfortunately, students are not constantly reminded of how beneficial a change in daily consumption habits can be (144). Advanced Disposal is a Waste & recycling facilities in Florida which has recently discussed how the abundant use of paper cups at Universities like USF, could result in increased university fees to help fight the pollution. Advanced Disposal can only to overcome the insufficient storage space for rubbish in the area. Hopefully, with such strong claims made by the company, students will begin to care about and react to the issue. A highly acclaimed reporter named Amanda Bates from Good Housekeeping published an article which highlighted how influential humans can be; in the article, a person who purchased a thermos and used it in a University dining hall managed to influence several other students to purchase one too. The student was unaware of the positive impact, which Bates referred to as a domino (3-4). With that being said, a student who adopts a better habit of using re-usable coffee cups, can help influence others to do the same thing. Fortunately for students, using, and purchasing a thermos is easy, cheap and convenient. Rebecca Shrum, the Assistant Director of the Public History program at the Indiana-Purdue University, wrote about the great advantages and benefits of the thermos. To begin, the thermos is and valuable, currently selling for $3.99 in and requires almost no maintenance (Shrum 275). More importantly, each thermos saves millions of paper cups worldwide, and since these bottles are almost the thermos has a very long life- span (Shrum 278). The Assistant Director further discussed how thermos bottles are available in most stores, are re-usable, and over the years have even become trendy accessories (277). According to Shrum, the re-usable thermos comes in almost every color, design, size, and students can even personalize the flask (278). All in all, students have the luxury to choose a bottle Lamusse 4 according to their style and budget. more, students can even contribute towards the overall market demand for the bottles; if people continue to purchase thermos cylinders, then the industry will react. Coffee cup manufacturers have begun to diversify towards producing re-usable cups, however, the high costs involved in changing the production processes and the lack of flexibility are amongst many reasons why disposable cups are still the most popular means to consume coffee. Finally, students at USF have the power to consume coffee in a more environmentally friendly way, and reduce the pollution levels in the Tampa area as well as across the United States. Everyday individuals order a take away coffee in a paper cup which affects millions of trees and creates tons of greenhouse gasses. As discussed in the paper, purchasing and using a thermos can help reduce unnecessary waste and encourage the coffee industry to become more sustainable. To all the students of USF, stop using paper cups, and educate others about the environmental issue of using paper cups. More importantly, buy a thermos and convince those around you to purchase one too. Students have the power to influence everyone around them, and can hopefully begin a worldwide thermos trend. Since these bottles are fun, cheap and easy to find, there are no reasons against their use. In this world of declining forests, and growing landfills, the use of the paper cup is totally unsustainable. Lamusse 5 Works Cited Tarja and Sirje Vares. Environmental Impacts of Disposable Cups with Special Focused on the Effect of Material Choices and End of  Journal of Cleaner Production, vol. 18, no. 14, 15 Sept. 2010, pp. 1458-1463 Pritchard, Bill. in a Coffee Teaching Geography, vol. 30, no. 3, 2005, pp. Snyder, Martin. of the Profession: The Starbucks Academe, vol. 92, no. 1, 2006, pp.70 Shrum, Rebecca K. Mr. Coffee: Design, Gender, and the Branding of a Kitchen Portfolio, vol. 46, no. 4, 2012, pp. Wright, Sarahanne, et al. Environmental Purchasing Practices and Environmental Beliefs of Stand-Alone Coffee Shop Owners and  Journal of Foodservice Business Research, vol. 14, no. 2, Apr-Jun2011, pp. 180-188..