Li 1 Student Instructor Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 30 April 2017 The reasons why global sea-level upward trend is continuing to grow from the past to the present rising is a long-standing concern, as the trend of global warming is slow, the effects of global warming will appear in decades (K.J.E. 2). Sea-level rising is the global environmental problem, it draws the attention of more and more people because this problem has begun to endanger the human living environment. However, the trend of global climate change in recent years is continuing to increase. The rise of sea level is one of the most significant problems of climate change. As early as the beginning of the twenty-first century, the rate of rise of sea levels was not very fast. But due to the environmental pollution caused by the intensification of human activities such as industrial pollution and greenhouse gas emission, the rate of sea-level rising has grown in the last few years, rate at which the sea level continues to rise is growing rapidly in the next few (Maric 1). Therefore, human habitation, especially in coastal areas, will be affected by sea-level rising. sharp rising in sea level has forced people to face up to global climate change issues, a series of urban plans are also summarized by the governments as a difficult problem because of the rapid increase in sea (K.J.E 3). Because of the severity of rising sea-level rising, people have to respond to the impact of rising sea levels on living conditions. In fact, with the passage of time, the rapid acceleration of global climate change has led to an increase in sea level rising. Sea level rising and global climate change has a direct relationship. The rate of sea-level rising has been continuously climbing from past to present based on the intensification of human activities. Therefore, Li 2 understanding the causes of sea-level rising and the major factors affecting the environment in human activities are key to solving this global topic. In recent years, severe climate change has led to accelerated sea-level rising. According to Hansen, the next 100 years, a rise of between 1.4 and 5.8 might be expected in average near-surface temperatures, bringing a range of associated changes including the increase in sea level and alterations in patterns of precipitation and storm (1). The change in global climate can lead to an increase in precipitation: the main reason for the rise in sea level is the result of global warming. In addition, the increasing of near surface temperatures, two- level glacier melting is also one of the main reasons for the rising in sea (K.J.E 2). Therefore, the increase in global climate change will directly affect the rate of sea-level rising. The authors Maciopinto and Liso stated that 2000 to 2014, The best fit of measurements shows an increasing rate of sea-level rising ranging from 4.4 mm/y to 8.8 mm/y, which will result in a maximum sea-level rising of approximately 2 m during the 22nd century (1). The rate of sea-level rising rises from 4.4 millimeters per year to 8.8 millimeters per year, this means that in the Twenty-second Century the living environment of port cities will be higher 2 meters than current. The huge environmental change will force people to change their living environment. Furthermore, the dramatic rising in sea level in recent years has also led people to look for ways to slow the global climate change. Hence, as global climate change is so severe, the rate of sea- level rising will exceed the human imagination. The impact of the environment on human begins cannot be estimated because of increasing in human activities. Hence, exploring the impact of human activities on the environment is a primary goal. Human activity is the main cause of recent global sea-level rising. Hansen points out that is over 90% probability that global warming is primarily caused by human Li 3 due to greenhouse gas (2). Greenhouse gas emissions is a major factor of human activity to the environment. With the increase in consumption levels, more and more urban vehicles are in the city. The more human demand, the more manufactured in the factory, the factory work emissions of gas and automobile exhaust are the basics of the greenhouse effect. According to Hansen, European Environment Agency the annual average temperature for the European land area up to 2008 was 1.2 above pre-industrial (4). Moreover, the other example provided by Maric et al. is values of night time urban air temperatures during the summer are several degrees centigrade higher compared to the surrounding (3). The cause of global climate change is excessive emissions and manufacturing. On the other hand, with the sea level rising rate is increasing, local governments face several issues when considering the city plan for sea level rising. The direct example is written by K.J.E et using sea level rise projections for Urban Planning in Australia. Australia as a representative port city received an investigation of sea level rise. Due to human pollution and gas emissions, the sea level rise to accelerate the structure need to make local governments to consider the re-planning for the future living environment. With the acceleration of global warming, the rate of sea level rising has also accelerated because of the human industry emissions and waste of resources. Global climate change and sea level rising have been changing from the past to the present. only difference is that the rate of change of sea level rising has changed significantly in recent years, especially (Maric 1). Therefore, measures taken by humanity to cope with the accelerated rate of sea level rising are also changing. Due to the increase in the rate of sea level rising, the human living environment is withstanding a severe test. In today, with a population of 7 billion, mainland area decreasing for humans is a heavy blow. So, to explore the root causes of the rising in sea level Li 4 and pay attention to the issue of global warming is urgent, people can grasp the actual situation to carry out the corresponding action to avoid irreparable damage in the future. (WC: 1167) Li 5 Work cited Masciopinto, Costantino and Isabella Serena Liso. Assessment of the Impact of Sea-Level Rise Due to Climate Change on Coastal Groundwater  The Science of the Total Environment, 2016, p. 672. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.scitotenv.2016.06.183. Maric, I., et al. Reducing the Impact of Climate Change by Applying Information Technologies and Measures for Improving Energy Efficiency in Urban  Energy & Buildings, 2016, p. 102. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.enbuild.2015.04.044. Hansen, Henning Sten. Modelling the Future Coastal Zone Urban Development as Implied by the IPCC SRES and Assessing the Impact from Sea Level  Landscape and Urban Planning, no. 3-4, 2010, p. 141. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx?di rect=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.241194438&site=eds-live. K. J. E., Walsh, et al. Using Sea Level Rise Projections for Urban Planning in  Journal of Coastal Research, no. 2, 2004, p. 586. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx?di rect=true&db=edsjsr&AN=edsjsr.4299312&site=eds-live.