Munoz 1 Marcos Munoz Alison Missler ENC 1102 14 April 2017 The Harm of Fracking in National Parks Do you drive a non-electric vehicle, use a gas stove, or have used anything plastic today? If you said yes to any of these, there is a good chance that you used oil from fracking. Oil is used in a vast amount of products and ways throughout daily life, mostly to power our means for transportation but also used to make plastic objects. A lot of people know of oil and what is used for, but what a lot of people do not realize is how this oil is obtained. About half of the oil that is gathered in the U.S is from fracking alone. Although the U.S obtaining their own oil is a good thing, fracking for oil is destroying the wildlife and surrounding areas water supply for not only the wildlife, but the people that live close to the drilling sites. Not only is this a national issue, but it is also an issue in our national parks. National parks should be nationally preserved land, but instead companies are fracking for oil in these lands that are supposed to be protected from any kind of environmental harm. There is a necessity for this issue to be made more aware of to the public so that it is possible to put a stop to it. There is an event in the MSC at the University of South Florida where there will be a presentation on what can be done to help stop fracking on April 24th. Munoz 2 According to Inagraffea, an engineering professor at cornell, fracking contaminates infuses toxic chemicals and gas into drinking water supplies in many states (80). These toxic chemicals being put into a drinking source causes not only people struggles, but also the animals and the environment surrounding the fracking site. Aside from the food chain and water source getting destroyed, land needs to be cleared in order to make room for the fracking oil machine rigs. This means clearing large areas of lands that include trees and animals homes that are supposed to be protected. Deforestation to make room for fracking reduces the amount of trees that are taking the carbon dioxide that humans are creating and releases the stored carbon dioxide back into the air which causes global warming. This contamination of the water source destroys the environment and ecosystem by killing the wildlife and devastating the food chain which has a large effect on how the ecosystem operates and the biology behind it. Keep in mind this is all happening in supposedly nationally preserved land that is supposed to be protected by the government. Not only is the surrounding environment and wildlife affected by this, but the whole world is. Fracking in national parks not only affects the environment and wildlife, but also humans that depend on a drinkable water source that is being contaminated. Chemicals such as methane are being found in well water near fracking sites (Holzman). This water containing methane is flammable and is not able to be used to drink anymore. About fifty percent of new natural gas wells in quebec have been found to have leaked methane (Bishop 4). Although this happens in nationally protected land, it still affects the people that live near these parks by not giving them clean, drinkable water. Munoz 3 National park land should not be destroyed for the benefit of gaining oil in the U.S. National park lands are home to a variety of different species and wildlife and it is unfair to them that the land that they live on is being used for that. Not only is it devastating for the environment, but the people that visit these national parks for their beauty and naturality. Even though this does not happen in every single national park, it should not be happening in any given national park. Industrializing a natural beauty destroys partly of what national parks are all about. Seeing nature that has not been touched by humans and hassled with is what national parks are there for and to protect land and wildlife from any harm.. Fracking is an apparent issue that should not be occurring in nationally preserved land, which is why the University of South Florida is taking action against it. On April 24th in the Marshall Student Center, a group of concerned students will give a presentation on fracking in national parks, the harm it does and how not only students, but everyone can help put a stop to it. Also, USF will be challenging their students to bike, take the bus, or carpool together to class instead of driving individual cars. Hopefully, not only students but everyone in the greater Tampa area will come out to the presentation to learn about the truths and devastating affects that fracking has on the environment and wildlife. Fracking has already heavily damaged land in national parks, and it is increasing every day that fracking continues. The oil industry has had a devastating effect on the environment, wildlife and humans already which is why it is vital for us to to take action against this Munoz 4 monstrosity. Consumers who buy and use these oil products that come from fracking have the power to put a stop to this and make a difference that the oil companies and industry will notice. Since consumers have the power to make change, USF will be challenging their students to bike, take the bus, or carpool together to class instead of driving individual cars. This will help students and people become more knowledgeable about oil and how to reduce it where it actually comes from and how much it takes to obtain it. Doing all of this will hopefully lead to at least the ban of fracking in national parks to help preserve the already preserved land. The people have the power to make a difference in this world and preserve the natural beauty that national parks are. Citations Geltman, Elizabeth Ann Glass. Oil & Gas Drilling in National  Resources 56 (2016): 145. Howarth, Robert W., Anthony Ingraffea, and Terry Engelder. Natural gas: Should fracking  477.7364 (2011): 271-275. Jackson, Robert B., et al. The environmental costs and benefits of  Review of Environment and 39 (2014): 327-362. Kerr, Richard A. Learning how to not make your own  335.6075 (2012): 1436-1437. Poole, Amanda, and Anastasia Hudgins. care more about this place, because I fought for exploring the political ecology of fracking in an ethnographic field  of Environmental Studies and 4.1 (2014): 37-46.