Gruman 1 Taylor Gruman Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 26 February 2017 ASA and Rhetoric Usage Logos, ethos, pathos, kairos. To some those words may not mean anything, but contrary to some belief, those four words have a huge impact on everyday life. Every company or organization has a purpose and those four words are the basic principle of how they gather Gruman 2 people to support and understand their purpose. One organization in specific who uses this method is Americans for Safe Access (ASA). ASA is a group of people who are working together to spread awareness for the importance of medical marijuana. ASA was first started in 2002 by a woman of the name Steph Sherer. She was a medical patient that was using marijuana to help treat her symptoms and she feels that it benefitted her drastically and can do the same for others. ASA is currently one of the largest organizations that advocates for the acceptance of marijuana as a source of medical relief for patients. The organization is made up of citizens from all over the country, including professionals and scientists (SafeAccessNow). The first image above was used to show support for the Veterans Equal Access Bill. This bill is to veterans with recommendations and opinions regarding participation in their marijuana (Blumenauer). The second image was created to show support for a study that was conducted that supported the idea that medical marijuana is a better pain medication than opiates. The two images above are created by Americans for Safe Access and both use ethos, pathos and kairos to persuade the audience to support the organization and the idea of medical marijuana for patients. Both images display a clear depiction of the use of pathos. In image one, the picture of the veteran, pathos is used to make the audience feel bad for all the veterans suffering. The veteran himself provokes the audience to feel respectful for the young man who fights for his country. Along with this, the expression and the way he is sitting in a cemetery, gives the sense that he is distraught over a possible traumatic event which is then paired with the fact about veterans committing suicide. This provokes the audience to feel sympathy for veterans and soldiers. Once the creator is able to get an emotional response from the audience, they are able to persuade citizens to support their cause. In the second image, the creator uses the picture of the Gruman 3 football player to initially peek interest in the audience and then begins to stir emotions. The statement out of 10 retired players suffer from pain on a daily is the main aspect of the emotional response in this picture since the creator is explaining how many people are suffering. (SafeAccessNow). Once the audience understands how many people are in pain every day, they are intended to feel an urge to help retired players. Statistics are used in both images to grasp the method of logos. Statistics help support an image because it shows the audience that there is scientific proof to back up a cause. In the first image the illustrator wants marijuana legalized in all states because it saves veterans lives. He uses the statement a 5% reduction in suicide rates in medical marijuana to prove to the audience that his claim and reason are well justified (SafeAccessNow). By supporting his claim with a statistic, it helps the audience to see the reasoning behind his argument and support his cause. People are more likely to see the logic in something when a statistic is presented because it shows them that there is proof to back up the argument. Statistics are also used in the second image to appeal to logos. The purpose of the second image is to legalize marijuana because it will help many retired players that are suffering. The creator states in 10 retired players suffer from pain on a daily as well as million Americans suffer from chronic to support his argument (SafeAccessNow). By stating this the creator is basically saying that 90% of retired players can benefit from medical marijuana. By using a statistic in which 90% of a group of people are effected, it is easy for the audience to see the logic in legalizing the substance. ASA is using statistics so that citizens who see this ad, will understand how many people can be helped which makes them want to take action. The second image was also created to support a study done that compared opiates to medical marijuana. The study explained that has analgesic efficacy with the low dose being as effective a pain reliever as the Gruman 4 medium (Wilsey et This also helps to appeal to logos. The author is basically saying that medical marijuana should be legalized because it is more effective than opiates. ASA then uses the study to support this claim and show the audience how effect medical marijuana can be. ASA uses both of the images to influence the audience to act immediately to help improve way of life. Kairos is evident in the veteran picture in several places. The picture is located in a cemetery which appeals to timeliness in the sense that it is showing that life is short and can end at any moment. It represents the veterans that are dying everyday due to suicide and more and more veterans are dying each day. This message is reinforced when the creator explains how many veterans die each day. The put the suicide rate in terms of days rather than years so that the audience will feel more obligated to take action right now rather than thinking that one day make a difference. A similar message is represented in the second image. ASA explains in the second image that people are suffering every single day and this could be helped by legalizing medical marijuana. Kairos is very evident because the picture is explaining how the sooner action is taken, the sooner these people have to suffer every single day. People will be quicker to support the cause when they realize how the longer they wait, the more difficult it is for the people that are suffering. The images above display three main forms of rhetoric, kairos, logos and pathos to convince the audience to support the idea that medical marijuana should be legalized. Each element is used in a different way but they all work together to help convince the audience. The method of logos grabs the audience and helps them to understand the importance of the situations. Logos appeals to the logic behind an argument which helps to persuade people who support the cause. Pathos is then used to make the audience feel sorry for those that are suffering when there is a way that they could have a better life. ASA plays on the emotions of the Gruman 5 audience so that people will take action based on sympathy. Kairos closely works with pathos in these images because the audience feels bad for the victims and feel the need to act immediately since people are suffering every single day. By using all of these appeals together, ASA is persuading citizens to support medical marijuana as a way to help people all around the country. Gruman 6 Works Cited for Safe Americans for Safe Access, www.safeaccessnow.org/. Blimenauer, Earl. Equal Access https://www.congress.gov/bill/114th- congress/house-bill/667/text Wilsey, B; Marcotte, T; Deutsch, R; Gouaux, B; Sakai, S; Donaghe, H. vaporized cannabis significantly improves neuropathic The National Center for Biotechnology Information, Vol. 14, no. 2, 2012, pp. 136-148. doi 10.1016/j.jpain.2012.10.009.