Freixa 1 Carolina Freixa Erika Staiger ENC1102 005 Sunday, April 16, 2017 Go cruelty-free Animal testing is a scientific experiment or test where a living animal is involuntarily forced to try chemicals or ingredients to make sure it is safe for human use. This testing is likely to cause the animal pain, suffering, distress, and/or lasting harm. Many cosmetics companies have chosen to go cruelty-free and save many animals lives. This has made a positive impact for companies ethically and financially. Having cruelty-free products means no animals were harmed in the making of the merchandise and no chemicals or ingredients were tested on any live animals. In vivo is another term for animal testing which means a test or process is being made within a living organism (Medicinenet). USF students should start buying cruelty-free cosmetics, participate in protest campaigns, and spread the word to help end the poor treatment and misuse of animals in labs for testing. Many aspects of testing cosmetics are animals are negative, especially financially. In the article, New models in Cosmetics Replacing Animal Testing scientist Gregory Mone states how going cruelty free is financially better for companies in themselves. According to Mone the take too long and are too as well as them taking years and millions of dollars or more to carry (Mone 20). Other ways of testing the ingredients in a product that involve animals would create better revenue seeing as it would not take as long or cost as much. Therefore, companies are better off going cruelty-free for business purposes. Freixa 2 Many people think it is possible for the world to stop using animals for testing purposes. The Eurpoian Union(EU) has already made a law therefore making it possible, stated by the scientist Sarah Adler who studies alternatives to animal experiments, to animal testing in the EU for cosmetic products and a complete ban of animal testing for ingredients by 11 March (372). Therefore, making it known that there is a way to test products and chemicals without the use of animals but with the use of new technology and advances. Currently, no ban has been set on using animals for testing within the U.S yet but with public education, research and protests it can easily become a law. Better alternatives can be made instead of using animals, as stated in the COLIPA analysis written by Stefa Pfuhler Scientific Committee on Consumer Safety recommended basic test battery for testing cosmetic ingredients for their genotoxic (Pfuhler 544). These alternatives include testing chemicals using gene mutation on bacteria and in vitro. Concluding that they are more quality and cost efficient than using in vivo. Scientific tests are more reliable than animal testing because it has been proven through the testings of Epiderm, an in vitro. correctly detected all of the test chemicals that irritate human skin, while tests on rabbits misclassified 10 out of 25 test full 40% error (Neavs). With new technology advances, alternatives to animal testing have been proven to be safer and more effective. Freeing animals and having a more efficient way to test products is beneficial for both sides. There are many benefits to not using live animals to test on such as; scientific tests are more reliable, more accurate, and more cost effective and environmentally friendly (NEAVS). In vitro is an alternative scientific test to animals and proves to be more reliable and beneficial. Using human tissue is also a more accurate testing method than animals, test can target toxic effects on specific human the agonizing death of an animal of a different Freixa 3 species would not (Neavs). Using human tissue saves the lives of many animals and proves to me more accurate during a toxicity test. Many USF students either have pets living with them or at home with their parents or just care about them. It is easy to love and care for animals like they are a part of your family. No one would want to harm their pets. Why harm any animals at all? USF students can stop buying products that test on animals to help stop animal testing all together. Many students go to USF therefore a big impact could be made. It is simple. Just look for the leaping bunny image on any product which states it is cruelty-free. Once you see the stamp of approval by Cruelty Free International you know that this product did not harm any animal in the making of it. Many cosmetics and personal care items are certified cruelty-free under the leaping bunny program (Cruelty-free International). Animals cannot speak up for themselves. They have feelings too. Be the voice for them by attending protests. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals(PETA) has a website that promotes when and where a protest will be and has the opportunity to create your own protest and promote it. USF students can participate in a protest to help stop cosmetic products being tested on animals. By doing this it will raise awareness and educate the public about the harms of animal testing. Education is also I big aspect of putting an end to the testing. USF students can also educate and promote buying cruelty free products by searching for the leaping bunny on products and participating in the protests to raise awareness. Countless animals die worldwide due to animal testing, but it have to be this way. Go cruelty free today. Freixa 4 Works Cited Adler, S., Basketter, D., Creton, S. et al. Arch Toxicol 2011. Print. Cruelty Free International. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Irving, Sarah, Rob Harrison, and Mary Rayner. Ethical Consumerism - Democracy through the  Journal of Research for Consumers (2005): n. pag. Print. Society, New England Anti-Vivisection. Alternatives to Animals in  In Testing. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://www.neavs.org/alternatives/in-testing>. Medical Definition of In  MedicineNet. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Mone, Gregory. New Models in Cosmetics Replacing Animal  N.p., 2010. Print. Pfuhler, Stephen. A Tiered Approach to the Use of Alternatives to Animal Testing for the Safety Assessment of Cosmetics: Genotoxicity. A COLIPA Analysis. N.p.: n.p., 2010. Print.