Santa 1 Lorena Santa Jackson ENC 1101 7 April 2017 Non-violent strategies to reduce human-animal conflict As human populations grow, the land they use to cultivate livestock and crops grows bigger as well. Leaving little to no room for animals to roam and hunt. Encounters between the two are inevitable and quite often those encounters end up in conflict or fatalities. Farmers depend on their cattle and crop to make a living. However, animals especially predators sometimes have little to no option but to encroach human land and satiate their hunger with human produce. This instigates the farmers to retaliate with guns, poison, and brutal trappings in an attempt to resolve the problem of invading wildlife. These only serve to further decrease the already deteriorating animal populations and they do not stop the animals from coming back. By adopting non-violent means of mitigating conflict such as: fixing livestock pens, livestock-wildlife training programs, and apiculture farmers can save their livelihoods and animals will be preserved for future generations. When animals encroach on human farmland, they usually leave behind a wake of damage and destruction. Whether the damage is trampled crops or dead livestock, any damage is a big blow to farmers as they depend on their livestock and crops to make a living. This of course instigates conflict and the animals suffer when the humans retaliate. According to a study done by Dr. Bernard Kissui, a researcher with a PhD in Ecology and Evolution and Behavior, livestock predation caused by carnivores is the biggest threat as they instigate retaliatory killings from farmers and pastoralists. Kissui conducted a research study on the vulnerability of lions, leopards, and hyenas to retaliatory killings in Massai Steppe, Tanzania. Over a 19-month period Santa 2 hyenas were responsible for 231 attacks, lions following with 99, and leopards 66 (Kissui 422). Even though the study found that more livestock were killed from disease than predation, the impact was high enough for farmers to retaliate and in consequence killing 85 lions, 71 hyenas, and 11 leopards over the 19-month study period. Each head of livestock is valuable, and when resources to take care of livestock are limited and disease is prevalent, loosing cattle to predators does not help. Farmers then turn to guns, poison, and snaring to protect their livestock from carnivores and exact retribution for they caused. Although this seems like the easiest way to go about getting rid of predators, in the long run in would only be detrimental as hunting down carnivores can result in the killing of mature reproductively active individuals and inhibit the recovery of diminishing populations Livestock pens keep a number of cattle, goats, or sheep together for better maintenance and also serve as a mode of protection from outside elements. However, they are not always kept up and they deteriorate leaving little to no protection from predators. Researchers like Dr. Hans Bauer who has been working on lion conservation for years conducted a study in West and Central Africa on different strategies to mitigate conflict and found that enclosures led to a significant decrease in (365). Dr. Rodney Jackson conducted a similar study in Nepal to mitigate human-snow leopard conflict. His study concluded that as long as villagers properly constructed pens that mass attacks from snow leopards are significantly decreased and that for every improved pen, up to five snow leopards are protected from retaliatory killings (Jackson et al. 307). These findings show that by improving guarding tactics, farmers prevent any predation of livestock and that violence is not necessary to resolve conflict. Humans and animals, especially carnivores, have had conflict for a very long time. So much so that humans developed deep ingrained attitudes towards them. To humans, animals can Santa 3 be a nuisance and a threat to their livelihoods. To curb the negative attitudes associated with animals and possibly mitigate conflict, livestock-wildlife training programs have been established in areas where human-animal conflict is common. In a research study done by Dr. Laurie Marker, the founder and executive Director of the Cheetah Conservation Fund (CCF), she found that the way farmers react to damages caused by wildlife goes deeper than the monetary ramifications. According to Marker, conservation must therefore develop conflict resolution and prevention approaches that address deeper attitudes, conflict patterns and relationships toward predators (302). These educational programs would show children and farmers different forms of farm management, non-lethal ways to control predators, and bolster predator tolerance. These programs not only have the potential to impact cheetah conservation, but conservation for other species as well. Non-violent strategies not only save animal lives but make farmers lives better as well. A non-violent strategy developed to mitigate human elephant conflict illustrates the extra benefits that non-violent strategies have. Elephants cause damage to farms as they encroach fields of crops and indulge themselves in the harvest. With their huge size and intelligence, elephants are not so easy to get rid of. In a study done by Dr. Mduduzi Ndlovu, a professor at the University of the Free State, found that bees could be used to deter elephants from approaching human farmland. As African honeybees are very territorial, elephants avoid them as much as possible to prevent being stung. Ndlovu found that active beehive emitting a combination of auditory and olfactory cues was a viable (Ndlovu et al. 52). An article published by the University of Oxford found more benefits to using bees as a deterrent as apiculture (beekeeping) is economical, improves crop production, and farmers can sell the honey that honeybees make (zoo.ox.ac.uk). Some people hesitate to use non-violent strategies because they Santa 4 cannot afford it. Finding guns and poison as the cheaper and easier option. However, non-violent strategies can actually contribute to a profit and ameliorate the conditions that farmers live in as well as help save an animal in the process. Conflict between humans as animals is inevitable. To animals can be seen as a nuisance that only cause damage and strife to their livelihood. There is no way to completely prevent encounters between the two but there is a way to assuage possible disputes without using violence. Simply improving the way farmers protect their livestock can significantly decrease the amount of depredation that farmers encounter. Livestock-wildlife training programs can give farmers and people a new perspective on wildlife and show them better ways to manage farmland which can only serve to help them. Pitting one of smallest creatures against its biggest can save farmers a lot of strife as well as give them some profit. Animals do not have to be killed to resolve conflict. By using non-violent strategies animals can be preserved for future generations and coexistence between the two species would be much more peaceful. Santa 5 Works Cited Bauer, Hans, Hans de Iongh, and Etotepe Sogbohossou. Assessment And Mitigation Of Human- Lion Conflict In West And Central  Mammalia: International Journal Of The Systematics, Biology And Ecology Of Mammals 4 (2010): 363. 07 Apr. 2017. Academic OneFile. Web. Retrieved from http://www.lib.usf.edu/ Jackson, Rodney M. and Rinchen Wangchuk. A Community-Based Approach to Mitigating Livestock Depredation by Snow  Human Dimensions of Wildlife, vol. 9, no. 4, Winter2004, p. 307. 07 Apr. 2017. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/. Retrieved from http://www.lib.usf.edu/ Kissui, B.M. Livestock Predation by Lions, Leopards, Spotted Hyenas, and Their Vulnerability to Retaliatory Killing in the Maasai Steppe,  Animal Conservation, no. 5, 2008, p. 422. 07 Apr. 2017. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/. Retrieved from http://www.lib.usf.edu/ Marker, Laurie L., and Lorraine K. Boast. Human-Wildlife Conflict 10 Years Later: Lessons Learned and Their Application to Cheetah  Human Dimensions of Wildlife, vol. 20, no. 4, Jul/Aug2015, p. 302. 07 Apr. 2017. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/. Retrieved from http://www.lib.usf.edu/ Ndlovu, Mduduzi, et al. Responses of African Elephants Towards a Bee Threat: Its Application in Mitigating Human-Elephant  South African Journal of Science, no. 1-2, Santa 6 2016, p. 52. 07 Apr. 2017. EBSCOhost, doi:10.17159/sajs.2016/20150058. Using Bees to Deter Crop-raiding  Using Bees to Deter Crop-raiding Elephants. Department of Zoology, n.d. Web. 07 Apr. 2017.