Nguyen 1 Cindy Nguyen Professor Gaspar ENC 1102 2 May 2017 The future of sustainability is in your hands Often times when people think of something that has been genetically modified there is a general misconception of what that actually means. Some people portray this as a science on the food that is consumed, turning natural foods into something that may be deemed as or However that is not the case of what genetically modified organisms are, nor is it what they strive to be. With the current birth rate being three hundred sixty thousand births a day, society is rapidly growing and there must be a reasonable and reliable way to sustain this population (Gruber). Although there may be opposing sides on whether the use of genetically modified organism is ethical and or safe many scientists have certified as safe to consume (Bodiguel). With the rise of new technologies and advancements in research genetically modified organisms have grown tremendously. have been proven to be a sustainable and reliable source of produce that most people can have access to. By supporting the use of while informing the public about the truth behind what actually means and continuing to purchase and consume this allows more advancements to this giant research project. Ultimately genetically modified organisms were actually introduced before recorded history (Ganzel). About ten thousand years ago when cultivators were selecting Nguyen 2 specific seeds that showed to be the most productive and resourceful they started to domesticate these seeds that in the end would yield them the best results (Ganzel). Although ten thousand years ago, whether these people knew it or not this began the cycle of what has now become to be known as genetically modifying an organism. Generally with the introduction of new sciences without much explanation, often times misconception is followed and with genetically modified organisms many people have certain misconceptions of what are or what they could be. There may be millions of people who see the practice of genetically modifying organism as unnatural to a consumer however there needs to be a realization that not everything in our current world can be produced especially after the age of industrialization. Secondly, another misconception that may worry consumers is that they view these plant geneticists as people who want to create or abnormal organisms, however that is not the case (Plenke). A genetically modified organism is defined as an organism that is given traits, otherwise that would not be found in nature (Plenke). What this means is that these plant geneticist are able to create and sustain an organism, for example take a tomato, they are able to give it traits so that it may grow bigger, and be able to feed more people, and with that they are able to grow our food supply which can in the end support the growing world. The rapid growth of this technically has allowed creating these genetically modified organisms in a way that is ethical, and sustainable for the population. Not only is it important that we sustain the food source for our population, but especially for the future generations in which it has been predicted to grow at rapid rates and by 2050 there will be approximately nine billion people on this planet (United Nations). Not only has the technology behind the creation of genetically modified Nguyen 3 organism been able to be greatly advanced, there has also been different experiments to prove the safeness of genetically modified organisms, which debunks the second misconception that many people may have. For example, the research and experiment that was done on livestock using regular grown feed, compared to genetically modified feed proved that there were no differences between the two after the livestock had consumed both feed (Eenennaam). The main goal of what genetically modified organisms strives to be is a sustainable way to grow produce, so that it is not harming the environment that we live in as well be able to produce foods at an affordable rate so that more people are able to purchase these and goods and provide for their family. Being that there may always be on ongoing debate on whether the use of genetically modified organism should or should not be used, there is a bigger picture to things then what people may see. The bigger picture of things is that in the end if the planet was not able to sustain and grow produce any more science and genetically modified organisms would be the only other option. Even if you do not have an opinion on whether there should be the use of genetically modified organism you should have an urge to care, because this could impact and change the future that you live in. With this intense and rapidly growing population there needs to be a food source that can accommodate for every one, and that include you. If you do not think that you are involved, you are. If you are living and breathing it is a fact that you need some source of food to be able to stay alive, and with the fact that our population is growing so quickly, there needs to be more than one source of food to sustain the world so that food does not become scarce. Although the debate upon the use over has been discussed for decades there is withholds a common goal between the two sides. This common goal is to Nguyen 4 make sure we can nourish and maintain our population, without further destroying the environment (Ronald). There is a sense of urgency especially for future generations because it could also be their only source of produce and food at one point. If you think about your kids, then your kids, and so on you want to think that they will live in a world in which there may not be one, because the human population could succumb to the lack or absence of a sustainable food source. Being that there is now a cause for concern, and that you should care about your own future, as well as future generations there are actions that you can take to support the use of therefore supporting the science behind it. With the support of the science behind there may be new discoveries within the world of whether it be able to add more nutrients into food, or grow them faster the science being should be supported and sustained for the future. The future of this world and population has many different outcomes dependent on whether people are able to sustain the world in the present and seeing if it can be maintained for thirty years or many more years beyond that. Getting involved does not mean that you need to become plant geneticist and create the best the technology there is to create one of the most important factors is informing the public about the benefits that have and how they can benefit the population for decades, and possibly centuries. With the misconceptions that are out there with the right explanation people will soon see the importance of and how they will help population in coherently sustain the future generations. While informing the public is an important goal, the other goal is that while every one cannot fully understand the science behind the there should be full publications Nguyen 5 of research and how these organisms are made so that there is nothing hidden between the public and the research. In most cases there may be opposing sides towards the certain topics that may be controversial or misconceived there often times lays a common goal. Taking this common goal of wanting to better maintain, and further sustain the population that is growing at rapid rates is the goal of all things. With reoccurring misconceptions about and the truth and science behind GMOs cleared, the importance about this issue is worldwide and with your help of informing the public and further supporting the use of you could possibly help further the advancements and technologies that this scientists are able to use. So with that will you become an educator that future generations will be grateful for, by teaching and informing the public about how actually important the use of are. (W.C: 1,380) Nguyen 6 Work Cited Blancke, Stefaan. Why People Oppose GMOs Even Though Science Says They Are Scientific American. Scientific American, 06 Aug. 2015. Web. 01 May 2017. Plenke, Max. Young People Should Support  Mic. Mic Network Inc., 25 Oct. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Jeremy, Gruber. The GMO Deception : What You Need to Know about the Food, Corporations, and Government Agencies Putting Our Families and Our Environment at Risk. New York, NY : Skyhorse Publishing, 2014. Bodiguel, Luc. GMO, Conventional and Organic Crops: From Coexistence to Local  Agriculture and Agricultural Science Procedia, vol. 8, no. Florence Sustainability of Well-Being International . 2015: Food for Sustainability and not just food, FlorenceSWIF2015, 01 Jan. 2016, pp. 264 Bijman, Jos, AgrEvo: From Crop Protection to Crop AgBioForum, Vol 4, No. 1, 2001, pages 20-25 World Population Projected to Reach 9.7 Billion by 2050 UN DESA Department of Economic and Social  United Nations. United Nations, 19 July 2015. Web. 02 May 2017. Eenennaam, and Weigel Animal enomics: Results from the Vol. 2, p. 120. 3 Dec. 2013. Ronald, Pamela. How Genetic Engineering Can Fight Disease, Reduce Insecticide Use and Enhance Food Security: Pamela Ronald Speaks at  How Genetic Engineering Can Fight Disease, Reduce Insecticide Use and Enhance Food Security. TED Talks, 05 June 2015. Web. 02 May 2017.