Saladino ! 1 Nicolas Saladino Comp 1 4/30/17 New Technology in the Field of Prosthetics The general field of medicine is known as a very slow adopter of new practices and technology. The medical field has been years behind every new technology update since the introduction of the computer. Recently however, the sub-field of prosthetics has started adopting technology at an increasingly fast rate which is a sign of hope for the entire field. Although the medical field is slow at adopting new technology, the medical sub-field of prosthetics is beginning to change thanks to two groups of innovators. These two groups of innovators are distinct, but surprisingly similar. The engineering group is one that is mainly focused on the mechanical and physical parts of the prosthetics that can be modernized with various new materials and hardware. The software group is mostly focused on how the modern software revelations can be applied to prosthetics to make them better overall. These groups each think that their focus is the most important one. However, both actually help each other move forward by sharing their discoveries and breakthroughs, while catapulting the field forward in terms of progress. To begin with, the medical field is known to be a slow adopter due to the average age of doctors in the field and the timeless practices that have proved to work for years. The saying goes if its not broke, fix it. This can be applied to the medical field especially when it comes to surgery. Surgery involves years of practice to learn and many more to perfect. A fairly recent new technology emerged to allow doctors to control a robot to do surgery with much Saladino ! 2 smaller incisions and from remote locations away from the physical patient. This was groundbreaking because doctors in the United States could perform surgery on soldiers in completely different countries all across the world. However, only a few doctors have been trained to do use this robot due to the intensity of the training and general stubbornness of doctors (Wagner). Fortunately, this technology is starting to gain more and more traction and more doctors are jumping on board with the adaptation and implementation of this technology. This example shows how something so breathtaking in the world can be a pain to actually implement in the medical field. The prosthetic field is changing the course on adopting new technology. Thanks to the engineering and software groups the field is adopting new technology at groundbreaking pace, for the field that is. The engineering group has developed new methods of using materials and hardware to make prosthetics lighter, more durable, and cheaper. This not only reduces the time required to make these products, but increases the benefits for the consumer. The software group has implemented technology such as computer aided design, and advanced programming to begin to work with cognitive prosthetics. It was astonishing to hear CAD/CAM took years to make it into the field of prosthetics. Not until 2001, when Dr. Smith and his teamed developed a way to implement the technology into the field (Smith). Using CAD/CAM, Dr. Mangera was able to apply her light metals that were being developed and benefit the prosthetic field as a whole. This example shows the two groups coming together to have a tremendous outcome for this field that still being used to this day. Although the field is moving forward, some critics believe that it still is taking way to long for these implementations to occur. These all have solid backgrounds and Saladino ! 3 arguments, but they correct in their judgements. Dr. Eshragi reviewed the 100 most cited papers in prosthetics and was able to identify this counterargument that was shared by nearly all of them. 96% of the reviewed articles addressed their timelines and the outside scrutiny of them (Eshragi). All of the outside claims however were proved to be false when the researchers agreed in unison that prosthetics are meant to help people with disabilities continue their normal life and make it better. In order to do that, these prosthetics need to be extremely durable, well thought out, maintainable, and overall beneficial to the patient. This means that a tremendous amount of research and development goes into every component of prosthetics. This slows down the process, but equates to much better products in the end. The end goal of all of the members involved in prosthetic manufacturing is to have the prosthetics be available for everyone who needs them, as well as last a lifetime for every patient. Prosthetics are meant to be helpful and not further detriment the patients lives. The end goal is what the innovator groups push for and are slowly, but surely making progress. In conclusion, the field of prosthetics is moving faster than the overall medical field at adopting new technology, while still maintaining its end goal. The medical field is beginning to change thanks to the prosthetics sub-field being a catalyst to the overall field. The two innovation groups love to bicker and argue how they are researching the better innovation path. However, they actually are extremely beneficial and helpful to each other and everyone who is involved with prosthetics as shown. Their are many critics to the medical field and the prosthetic area as well, but the fields continue to move on and continue changing to the best of their ability. Although the medical field is slow at adopting new technology, the medical sub-field of prosthetics is beginning to change thanks to two groups of innovators which together are Saladino ! 4 revolutionizing the field as we know it. The prosthetic field has its end goal and is determined to reach it, no matter what obstacles stand in their way. New technology is being released every day in our modern society and the medical field will eventually catch up with the times and be able to provide benefits to each and everyone of us. Saladino ! 5 Works Cited Eshraghi, Arezoo, et al. 100 Top-Cited Scientific Papers In Limb  Biomedical Engineering Online, vol. 12, no. 1, 1 Dec. 2013, pp. 2-20. Academic Search Alumni Edition. doi:10.1186/1475-925X-12-119 Jamieson, Matthew, et al. The Efficacy Of Cognitive Prosthetic Technology For People With Memory Impairments: A Systematic Review And  Neuropsychological Rehabilitation, vol. 24, no. 3/4, 29 April, 2013, pp. 419-444. Academic Search Premier, doi:10.1080/09602011.2013.825632 Mangera, Taahirah, et al. Light Metals For The Functional Requirements Of Developing World Lower Extremity Paediatric Prosthetics: A Review Of Current Material & Technology  Materials Science Forum , vol. 828-829, 11 May 2015, pp. 499-505. Applied Science & Technology Source, doi: 10.4028/www.scientific.net/MSF.828-829.499 Smith, Douglas G., and Ernest M. Burgess. The Use Of CAD/CAM Technology In Prosthetics And Orthotics- Current Clinical Models And A View To The  Journal Of Rehabilitation Research & Development, vol. 38 no. 3, 1 May 2001, pp. 327-334. Academic Search Premier. Wagner, H., et al. The Effects Of New Technology Adoption On Employee Skills In The Prosthetics  International Journal Of Production Research, vol. 46, no. 22, 15 Nov. 2008, pp. 6461-6478. Business Source Premier, doi: 10.1080/00207540701432623. Zettler, Patricia J. Is It Cheating To Use Cheetahs?: The Implications Of Technologically Innovative Prostheses For Sports Values And  Boston University International Law Journal, vol. 27, no. 2, 1 July 2009, pp. 367-409. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews.