McMahan 1 Justin McMahan Angelica Aranda ENC.1102.033 4/30/17 Smoking, Is it really worth it? Did you smoke a cigarette, pipe or even a cigar today or even know someone that has smoked today. If the answer is yes, there is a big possibility that you or the person you know will have some sort of lung disease in the coming years. The production of tobacco products have sky rocketed over the years and the smoking addiction is on an all-time high. Millennials are the big targets to the addiction. They are big targets because they use more resources then other generations do and these resources can lead them to smoke (e.g. TV, Internet Millennials are individuals reaching young adulthood in the early 21st century, they are around 18 to 31 years old (Oxford Dictionaries ). What many millennials do not know is that smoking is harmful to themselves and the people around them. When individuals are around someone who smokes, those individuals can intake that smoke and get similar effects, this is called second hand smoke (CDC). This is a non-contact way of smoking that can harm the lungs. So lungs can get diseases with inhaling smoke or breathing in second hand smoke. In order to do something about this issue, it is important to create knowledge and awareness about smoking and its effects on the lungs. One way this can happen is millennials can get in contact with the American Lung Association via their website, mainly by clicking on the tab (American Lung Association ). McMahan 2 According to the American Lung Association, smoking is the leading cause of preventable death in the U.S., causing over 438,000 deaths per year (American Lung Association ). When smoking a cigarette, cigar or pipe, individuals are smoking tobacco with nicotine. Nicotine is a chemical that makes smoking addictive for humans. Cigarettes contain over 7000 chemicals, more than just the tobacco hurting someone when they smoke (The Real Cost). When someone smokes they are inhaling the smoke into their lungs then exhaling it out. This is terrible for the lungs because smoking disrupts the natural way of the respiratory system by affecting the main organ of this system the lungs. Smoking puts extra chemicals into your body that should not be there. Over time the lungs will look tar black because smoking is like having tar go through your lungs and a little sticking to your lungs every time anyone smokes. This accumulation of tar can eventually cause diseases. If individuals do not want this to occur they should become more aware and educated on the topic of smoking and check out the American Lung Association website. Millennials should really care about smoking because not only does it affect the lungs, it can affect the overall health the body, family and finances. Lung diseases that are associated with smoking are Lung Cancer, Chronic Bronchitis, Emphysema or Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), which is a combination of the previous two. Lung cancer is cancer that appears in the lungs by mostly smoking. Chronic bronchitis is increased mucus and inflammation, emphysema is destruction and enlargement of air spaces and COPD is a combination of the two that block airflow and make it difficult to breathe (Mayo clinic). Smoking does not just cause lung diseases, there are other that smoking can cause like gum disease, heart disease, development of a stroke and can nearly harm every organ in the body in some way (Tabacco Free Florida). So overall heath is a factor at play every time a person smokes. Smoking can McMahan 3 ultimately kill anyone who smokes, which is why millennials should care about smoking and if they are still not fazed by this, smoking can ultimately hurt family as well. Family can get hurt in many ways, death from smoking can occur which could tear a family apart. Smoking could get someone shunned and not be a part of the family and worst of all it takes time away from the family. It takes time away from the family because most places presently do not allow smoking, so that means when someone get the urge to smoke they have to leave the premises which makes it hard on the family to want to be around a person that smokes and include them. Lastly, smoking can have a big impact on income. Every time the action of smoking occurs, money is being burned. Smoking can hurt someone financially by buying smokes and buying life/health insurance. With the addiction on the rise, the price of smoking keeps going up, the average price for a pack of cigarettes is five dollars and fifty cents with the most expensive packs being twelve dollars and eighty five cents (Fair Reporters). That is two thousand and five dollars and fifty one cents average for a pack a day smoker and a four thousand six hundred and seventy seven dollars and forty cents for an expensive average for a pack a day smoker a year. If millennials would like to save their money, family and themselves, they should get in contact with the American Lung Association via their website, mainly by clicking on the tab (American Lung Association). Millennials can essentially take action to care about the topic of smoking and get people to stop smoking or get themselves to stop smoking. One way to do is this is to get in contact with the American Lung Association via their website, mainly by clicking on the tab. This tab can empower millennials to learn more about smoking facts, help quit, help someone quit or ultimately help to join a program called from not just an option to take action on the topic of smoking, more of a need. Millennials are the beginning McMahan 4 generation of new adults, the new adults are the new leaders, teachers, workers, moms, dads Do not waste adulthood by smoking. Millennials are starting to arise in many fields in this world and if a person smokes they are wasting a life, a life that can be used to help this world flourish. In conclusion, smoking is a deadly addiction that mainly hurts the lungs and can lead to death but it can also hurt many other factors in in life that are tangible and intangible. Millennials need to get this through their heads by mostly being knowledgeable and aware of smoking and its effects. Millennials need to take action to care about the topic of smoking and get people to stop smoking or get themselves to stop smoking. One way or a beginning step to this is getting in contact with the American Lung Association via their website, mainly by clicking on the tab. So how about it millennials I challenge you to get empowered to make a difference when it comes to smoking. McMahan 5 Works Cited American Lung Association . Health Effects. 2017. http://www.lung.org/stop-smoking/smoking- facts/health-effects.html. 14 April 2017. American Lung Association . Stop Smoking. 2017. http://www.lung.org/stop-smoking/smoking- facts/health-effects.html. 14 April 2017. CDC. Secondhand Smoke (SHS) Facts. 2017. s/. 14 April 2017. Fair Reporters. Prices Of Cigarettes By State. 2017. http://fairreporters.net/health/prices-of- cigarettes-by-state/. 17 April 2017. Mayo clinic. COPD. 2017. http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/copd/home/ovc- 2017 April 2017. Oxford Dictionaries . Millennial. 2017. https://en.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/millennial. 14 April 2017. Tabacco Free Florida. Effects of tabacco. 2017. http://tobaccofreeflorida.com/why-should-i- quit/effects-of-tobacco/. 2017 April 2017. The Real Cost. Tabacco Basics. 2017. https://therealcost.betobaccofree.hhs.gov/tobacco- basics.html?gclid=CPCJwJTpqdMCFUU9gQodZboJCA&gclsrc=aw.ds. 14 April 2017.