Student 1 Student Instructor Gaspar ENC 1102 3 May 2017 South Devastating Culture of Rape Imagine a young girl walking to school through a field of tall grass who is suddenly thrown to the ground, raped and abused. Reporting this incident did nothing in her favor and the rapist walks loose while she is left traumatized in this system of injustice (Rape Crisis). With a history full of violence and rape, South Africa is known as the rape capital of the world and many South African rape victims can describe the horrors. It is especially traumatizing when 563,841 sexual offences occur per year, but only 62,649 reported and 5,484 resulting in conviction (Rape Crisis). These series of injustice need to come to an end. Many countries have lower rates of rape crime due to legislative action and preventive measures. In order for South Africa to become a secure place for women and children, a legislative change such as proper enforcement, education of both women and men, and access to contraceptives. This can be achieved by non-involved progressive countries supporting sexual health organizations located in South Africa such as UNICEF and No Means No to become more influential. Without their help, South Africa will continue to be rule by their culture of rape. Firstly, implementing legislation that enforces the anti-rape notion is necessary for the justice system to be able to change the current situation. In the past, South Criminal Law Act of 1997 narrowly defined sexual offences as vaginal other offences were classified under categories like Rape was thus restricted to Student 2 only (Louw). In addition, this broad law limited the kinds of sexual offences that could potentially be convicted as a crime and allowed crime to run rampant among the streets of South Africa. Unlike the old law, the new detailed The Sexual Offences Act of 2007 addressed more issues. For example, sexual offences that could be convicted were sexual assault, sexual exploitation, sexual harassment, but the most crucial addition to this law was consent which was described as rational, informed, uncoerced, and willing (Louw). Despite the detailed law, it is not implemented nearly enough. Often, victims have a hard time reporting and convincing the system that they were indeed sexually assaulted. For example, if the individual was drunk, hitchhiking, flirting, etc., the criminal justice system found little credibility of the claim even with evidence provided (Smythe). Without a change in the legal system and mandatory administration of new laws, this endeavor towards equity be achieved and women and their children will continue to be taken advantage of because of their situation. On the other hand, most of the South African male population would counter against the fact that rape is immoral due to the society they were raised in. Growing up, boys develop a preconceived notion that girls enjoy rape or they dress/act in a way that wants it. They also view superiority entitles them to vent their frustrations on women and with 46% stating to have raped more than once (Lindow). This mindset can be found in the lowest tier of society, to the upper-class politicians. For example, South current president, Jacob Zuma. was involved in a 2006 rape trial. On his behalf, he explained woman had dressed that it was against Zulu culture for a man to leave a sexually aroused woman (Lindow). Other stakeholders including President Zuma counter the pleas for conviction by asserting that rape is in their culture. For instance, some South African communities believe sexual intercourse with a virgin can cure AIDS (Itano). Despite the lack of Student 3 power given to them in society, this does not justify why women should live in fear while fighting against these pre-conceived notions. Furthermore, South Africa can learn about the examples other countries have set for the empowerment of women such as sexual education and access to contraceptives. The first step is educating both sexes at a young age that rape is wrong. It is essential this starts early on because values are developed in their prime. This is also proven by No Means No, a worldwide organization that educates the younger generation by offering young girls self-defense classes and teaching boys about consent (Parker). Schools that implemented Means No training saw a nearly 40% decrease in rapes in the following year of the (Parker). Another stride that needs to be made to improve the situation of South rape culture is having access to contraceptives. For the majority, contraceptives are too expensive. Some recent endeavors towards making contraceptives more accessible for those who cannot afford it is the Marie Stopes South Africa Centres. Founded in 1993, it is the largest non-profit provider of sexual/reproductive healthcare and is committed to providing contraceptives at suitable prices or even for free in some cases. (Marie Stopes). The sexual education will bring forth a new generation that ends rape culture and contraceptives will empower women with choice. Despite the attempts to resolve this issue of rape culture, South Africa is still rampaged with sexual violence and terror. One story that tells the helplessness women feel in their society of rape culture is the story of Tandazwa Mpofu. After work, she goes to drink at a local drinking establishment where she meets a woman and they become friends who then introduces Tandazwa to the father (Smythe). After the man drops off his daughter, he Tandazwa to a quiet road, where he rapes her at knife point and throws her out of the (Smythe). Despite being able to identify him and reporting this incident, she finds out a month Student 4 later that the detective underlined in red bought beers for the (Smythe). Nothing was done to pursue this investigation and it was closed as (Smythe). These are the kinds of results that rape victims receive despite their attempts. A vast majority of victims are left with injustice and have to face that they are helpless unless the justice system changes. It is difficult to live through a traumatizing event, gathering the courage to reveal and report to the public, only to be rejected and ignored. More importantly, other parts of the world should get involved and act against South culture of rape purely because of human rights. Progressive countries that believe in human rights can partake in this change to bring about a better life for those living in South Africa. For example, donating or supporting organizations like UNICEF and No Means No would benefit the situation. UNICEF is a worldwide non-profit organization that focuses on the health and safety of women and children (UNICEF). Reasonably, their reach is limited because they are located in large cities within each country to influence as many people as possible due to limited funding. For instance, they have headquarters at Cape Town, South Africa and hope to expand and target even the smallest villages in South Africa. Without adequate amounts of funding and support from other countries, they are unable to do that. No Means No also has similar problems. For their program to reach as many schools possible, outside countries need to support them since South government is neglecting this issue. The biggest objective for preventative measures against rape is changing the mindset. No Means No targets this way of thinking and can create a future generation that abolishes rape. They are unable to do that unless outside support from other countries decide to help. If the developed countries and sexual health organizations with influence in South Africa work together, a safer environment can enfold from Student 5 their efforts. The people within other countries need to start caring about South culture of rape to make a difference. In conclusion, South rape culture has been an issue for far too long. It is necessary to develop a justice system that properly enforces anti-rape, sexual education, and access to contraceptives for the country to be able to get past their history of sexual violence. The only way to help is if other countries start caring about victims of South culture of rape. When people are being mistreated, other parts of the world should take on some responsibility as a duty to basic human rights. By supporting sexual health organizations such as UNICEF and No Means No, South Africans who lived in fear before can feel more secure to start a movement in hopes of creating a rape-free environment for the generations to come. (Word Count: 1394) Student 6 Works Cited South African Statistics for  Rape Crisis Cape Town Trust. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. http://rapecrisis.org.za/about-rape/. Louw, Wim. Sexual offences in South Africa  Helen Zuzman Foundation . N.p., 25 Apr. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. http://hsf.org.za/resource-centre/hsf-briefs/sexual-offences-in-south- africa. Smythe, Dee. Rape in South Africa: why the system is failing  The Conversation. N.p., 18 Feb. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. http://theconversation.com/rape-in-south-africa-why- the-system-is-failing-women-54924. Lindow, Megan. South Rape Crisis: 1 in 4 Men Say Done  TIME. N.p., 20 June 2009. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. http://content.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,1906000,00.html. Itano, Nicole. South Africa Begins Getting Tough on  WomenENews. N.p., 24 Feb. 2003. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. http://womensenews.org/2003/02/south-africa-begins-getting- tough-rape/. About  Marie Stopes. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. http://www.mariestopes.org.za/about- us/. Parker, Molloy. unique approach to rape prevention should have the rest of the world taking  Upworthy. N.p., 26 Mar. 2015. Web. 1 May 2017. http://www.upworthy.com/kenyas-unique-approach-to-rape-prevention-should-have-the- rest-of-the-world-taking-note. Student 7 UNICEF: South Africa. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Apr. 2017. https://www.unicef.org/southafrica/.