Thorpe Geno Thorpe Professor Paquette ENC.1101.Composition 4/26/17 Free Tuition When people speak of going to college, the first thought is how will tuition be taken care of while attending school. College can be an expensive place, in which students can transition into the real world without being thrown in to fail. It gives that stepping-stone in order to help guide our new generation. Not all students are able to experience loans and certain funds to pay back tuition. College is an institution that people attend to gain more intelligence and should be more available to attain. There is no necessary age limit to attend college but statistically the ages consist of people twenty too twenty-nine years of age. Having tuition to pay is one of the biggest factors of why people do not attend college. Certain characteristics can be gained such as work skills, helping to receive a job, also providing more income due to the knowledge of that degree. Community College is a place where students should be able to receive free education because it can begin to help them understand the effects and ways of the real world. In modern society, being the best version of oneself is something that most people strive to achieve. With community college being free, this would assist anyone to be able to receive a proper education. This will not hinder anyone for being the best version they can be. To fully understand the problem of tuition within colleges, we must understand how many people in our society can afford college. In the year 2015, Edward Jones, an Thorpe analyst, did a survey on Americans who can afford college tuition. He later found that 83 percent of Americans say they cannot afford regular college tuition, more than three quarters. (Dissent Magazine.) College cost still continues to rise but there are still handfuls of students that have gone to college and became successful afterwards. Having a college degree is very beneficial in a variety of different ways. A regular graduate with a degree is less likely to face unemployment and will more than likely earn more income then a high school graduate. studies prove that over a course of a lifetime, the average worker with a degree with earn approximately 1 million more than a worker without a postsecondary With the help in funds to those who are less fortunate, our world will be able to have more minds that are substantially more intelligent in order to have a bright and prosperous future for our generation. Attending college as a normal student has not been an easy transition for some people. It has turned into will I get my tuition Sitting down with a friend named Abby Fisher who attends the University of South Florida, I was able to ask her questions of her own experience as a Bull, as well as about tuition fees. Simply, it was easy for her to discuss her issues with her college experience. She says, wish somebody in the staff could hit me, so they can add money to my She also said that no matter what she does around the area matter anymore because I pay tuition at this university. It is going to cost me a (Fisher, 2017). After speaking to her I realized that this issue is giving students a pessimistic outlook on college that is not a place to learn, but rather it is a place for students to get into debt, or a place you must come up with money in order to continue to be successful. More than half of those Thorpe enrolled in college come out of school in debt. How can any students in debt guarantee that they will have enough money to pay back their tuition? We as an entire country must help our students out of this mindset and into the mindset of me make the most out of my The rate that college tuitions are headed yearly makes it almost impossible to convince a student it is 100 percent worth it to go to college. However, some might say that having free tuition for community college can cause students to abuse and take advantage of that privilege. Not every student that is granted the opportunity to attend college will take advantage of the situation. Young adults during the stage of college may not make the best decisions for themselves long term. Students at this particular age tend to still be finding themselves as people and also their purpose in this world. People, who go to college because they have to and not because they want too, usually abuse the privilege. At every level of education there are students who do not show a ton of interest in school. In college, there are students who do not care to graduate and waste the funds that the government has given them for free. (Levaux.) However, even with these people, we still have plenty of students who want to make our world a better place with their minds as well as creativity, but have no way to fund themselves through. If I were to have a resolution, making sure students take care of their schoolwork would be most important. Depending of the performance in the classroom could potentially extend their tuition scholarships. This way it gives them the chance to dictate their own journey and potential on how serious they are about their schooling. College tuition in our generation today is still a controversial topic. If tuition were free for community college it could give our students an option of pursuing a higher Thorpe career, not to a point where they have to be hindered because they cannot afford it. This could easily happen if there were more people in our society who cared about young students and their futures. something that we can accomplish, and something that will train our workforce so we can compete with anybody in the Says our president of the United States when speaking on community college enrollment. The leader of our country told the society that if all fifty states were to adopt the plan of free tuition in community college, that if could potentially cover about 9 million students. In order to make our world better we must invest in our young people. Students already deal with enough schoolwork let alone working to make money in order to survive. There should be more talk of how we can help our students and not just because they pay their full tuition. Thorpe Work Cited Levaux, Janet. 83% of Americans Say They Afford College: Edward Jones  ThinkAdvisor. N.p., 13 May 2015. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Redd, Luke. Should College Be Free? Pros, Cons, and  Should College Be Free? Pros, Cons, and Alternatives. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Sienna-beard. 4 Reasons Why a College Education Is Necessary These  The Cheat Sheet. The Cheat Sheet, 29 Oct. 2015. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. 10 Thesis Statement Examples to Inspire Your Next Argumentative  Kibin Blog. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Zurcher, Anthony. Community  BBC News. BBC, 09 Jan. 2015. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. Why Free College Is  Dissent Magazine. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Fisher, Abby. Personal interview. Fri 07 Apr. 2017.