huang1 Yi Huang ENC Class 2/26/2017 Air Pollution As the most serious topic air , took seriously by many nations and non-profit institutions. Many countries by the way of advertising images to remind people the importance of protecting the environment and enhance environmental awareness. air for all - all for clean (Janez Along with the economic development and people living standard rise, people gradually use instead of the previous car transportation (such as: bicycle) although this makes life more convenient and quick, but carbon dioxide emissions are on the rise year by year, because the more cars, emissions of carbon dioxide will increase. By the same token, the demand for oil will increase, cause the excessive exploitation of petroleum, chemical plant workload increases, and the ecological environment is destroyed, lead to airing pollution is becoming serious. In recent years, people have realized the air pollution damage to the environment, even affected health; they begin to protect the environment. WWF is the natural environment group (World Wide Fund for Nature) it is a non-profit organization, was founded in 1986. Now have more than 5 million volunteers around the world involved huang2 in the protection of the environment. They will often send some pictures of a blameworthy; the audience can produce emotional resonance. They pass by information are not to make people feel uncomfortable, but let people have a common goal: to protect the ecological environment, make the air environment does not continue to destroy. If the world only a drop of clean water and a human life of the land, you will go to damage the air environment? (Air pollution can lead to greenhouse  and water pollution and other natural disasters). hard to see the first picture was taken in order to protect the air down. However,  Do not let the last drop of water on Earth be your  (Ming Su), When he published an article on this picture, he spoke the words, immediately attracted many viewers. Air is a ubiquitous, due to air pollution, cause water pollution. More than millions of people each year in the world, owing to long-term drinking unclean water and lead to disease, and even death, this reflects the fact that air pollution is very serious. The second image is a polar bear standing on a piece of ice, a sign of this is a very straightforward, and glacier has huang3 started to melt. In 2009, the Copenhagen climate conference was held in the world, and put forward due to the long-term and chemical plant of carbon dioxide emissions of air pollution, the air warming has led to the world (the greenhouse effect), that will make a lot of glacier has started to melt. This picture makes readers feel fear and anxiety, because ecological destruction of the world, will directly affect health and own live. Kairos is appeal to timeliness, the second image deep reminded the audience the importance of protecting the environment and urgency, due to the improvement of living standards, modern cars, refrigerators, computers, televisions and mobile phones has become the necessities of life, it also makes the environment pressure increases, as a result of these necessities increase year by year, many power plants, chemical plants and oil firms are also increased year by year, this led to the air quality worse year by year, such as acid rain and fog in many places, this is all because of the bad air quality. Tens of thousands of glaciers are melting with the fastest speed ever. And even though the global climate change tends to be stable, melting glaciers will still continue. (Alex Kirby) and the color of the picture is gray, the timely reminder to protect air environment. Air pollution can cause the temperature of the temperature rise, because of the greenhouse , which makes the melting of the glaciers sped up its speed. Pathos is to let the audience have a certain sense, the first picture is a child has left a drop of tears; the second is the polar bear standing on a piece of ice. This two pictures, interpret the influence of air pollution on life, one is the last huang4 drop of clean water in the world is tears, another is the air pollution produced greenhouse effect, has affected the ecological environment, living environment is slowly being threatened. The two pictures can make the audience feel uneasy and guilty, because most of the people are now rarely used vehicles, led to the emissions of carbon dioxide have increased dramatically. The second image is a polar bear standing on his final habitat, if change the Angle to think, if one day, the man himself stood in their final habitat, they can feel, what they feel desperate and helpless, they may to oneself once the destruction of the environment and feel guilty, but by that time, everything is too late, because at that time have no way to save people the mistakes of the past. However, the first picture is very tactful, the last drop of tears of clean water is a human, it also reflects the damage of air pollution on human health, not only can cause water pollution, air pollution can also cause environmental pollution, which inevitably threaten own security. If not a drop of clean water in the world, then humans will also continue to destroy the air environment? Show in the picture is a little boy a drop of tears, because he just came to this world, is not polluted, so he is the first drop of tears is also the last drop of tears is clean. Because a lot of people do not have the consciousness of protecting the environment, if a person is destroying the environment, affect nature but if most people in the world is in direct or indirect damage to the environment, so people is digging tomb for yourself, nature is fragile. People arbitrarily increase the pollution of air, resulting in many parts of the acid rain and smog; however, these natural disasters will lead to other natural disasters, such as the land dried up, shocking violence and debris flow, huang5 etc. Many natural disasters can be avoided, if people to protect the environment, make the ecological harmony, even if these natural disasters happened, also can protect human life and property security, in other words, to protect the air, is to protect human beings themselves. Specific elements of the audience are some specific information, two images logo are grey, The world should be  The second image (WWF) two chose a sad scene, and the first picture is the topic of a baby. Cholle said: Must give people intuitive  (Francis Cholle P 2011). The second image gives people the feeling of the most direct. Ecosystem has been damaged. The original picture is very tactful. Because the second picture is real, obviously a lot of people realize that environment is the serious destruction, also realize the greenhouse  has harm to natural. But the common goal of the two pictures is requested to people to protect the environment. WWF is released by advertising, not only to tell the audience the severity and harmfulness of air pollution. Its goal is to make people have started to improve and to protect our living environment. People cannot live without air, people will die without air, but once suffered serious air pollution, people are in chronic death. goal is tantamount to halt and eventually reverse the acceleration of the natural environment deterioration, and to help create a harmonious coexistence of man and nature the beautiful future. huang6 Work Cited European Commission - PRESS RELEASES - Press release - Speech - Clean air for all - all for clean .  European Commission - PRESS RELEASES - Press release - Speech - Clean air for all - all for clean . N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Dec. 2013. WWF China. WWF  About us . N.p., n.d. Web. 12 June 2012. Su, Ming. let your tear be the last drop of water in the world- my peasonal  Assuming. N.p., 23 Nov. 2014. Web. Still and moving  WWF - Still and moving images. N.p., n.d. Web. 06 Mar. 2005.