Rolon 1 Brianna Rolon Instructor Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 2 May 2017 Understanding and Defending Antidepressants Some people believe that drugs should not be included in a method of healing diseases, whereas many are dependent on drugs throughout the healing process. The word normally has a negative connotation connected to it giving the false impression that there can not be any positive outcome when speaking in terms of healing. The true meaning of the word drug is defined as a therapeutic agent used in the prevention, diagnosis, alleviation, treatment, or cure of  (Farlex). Depression is an example of a disease where that therapeutic agent can be used as a method to provide alleviation. A prescribed agent people with depression is known as antidepressant. An antidepressant can be properly defined as the psychiatric medications given to patients with depressive disorders to alleviate symptoms by correcting chemical imbalances of neurotransmitters in the brain that cause changes in mood and (Nordqvist). People in society do not see antidepressants in this way because they tend to believe unreliable sources, rather than educating themselves on the issue. To put false definitions, suggestions, and news to an end, a new trend of becoming educated before assuming must begin. To accomplish this, one must first learn about the issue in the proper way by using reliable sources. Then, one must apply the knowledge gained by actively influencing others, speaking out against false comments and reaching out to the depressed patients. By completing these steps, people will make a very valuable decision that will forever positively Rolon 2 affect their state of being. Antidepressants have a very special way of reducing depression symptoms by working with neurotransmitters. Neurotransmitters are commonly known as the messengers that provide communication from the brain to the body. According to Rebecca video lecture, antidepressants work with these messengers to the concentration of certain neurotransmitters within the and ultimately improve a mood will significantly. These therapeutic agents do so by chemical imbalances of neurotransmitters in the (Depression-Cures). There are several types of antidepressants that work to manipulate one or more of the neurotransmitters, which include oxidase inhibitors, noradrenaline and specific serotonergic antidepressants, serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, and (Depression- Causes). This drug is becoming more due to advances in technology in the medical (Ericksen). These advances include technological advances that help in the form of making and testing the antidepressants. Different types of software and programs has also different organizations to classify different diseases including (Ashok). These advances also allow antidepressants to become more easily accessible. Lastly, Advancements allowed for researchers to the efficacy, accelerate the onset of action and reduce the side- (Ashok). These advances ultimately allow for the most prestigious research and tests to be done on antidepressants making the results extremely valuable and reliable. The recent advancements that have been made in the medical field have set a very high standard for doctors and physicians to constantly be held to. This standard ensures that those doctors or physicians are the most reliable, well educated, and thoroughly trained doctors and Rolon 3 mentors for those going through a healing process. With the help of these high principled mentors, the of antidepressants has been tested, used by many, and reviewed very This treatment is extremely dependable, very adaptable and there are types of antidepressants, that accommodate different patients with different (Depression- Causes). Antidepressants are rapidly becoming a trending topic on social media. TED Talks provide well educated people who speak against the negativity surrounding antidepressants and work to educate the society through videos found on social media. Rebecca Brachman a pioneer in the field of preventative psychopharmacology, developing drugs to enhance stress resilience and prevent mental (TED Talks). Brachman does so by news of a serendipitous breakthrough treatments that may prevent mental disorders like depression and PTSD from ever (TED Talks). She goes into detail about breakthrough treatments, beginning with the breakthrough of the antidepressant. While in search of a medication to treat tuberculosis, doctors stumbled upon iproniazid. This therapeutic agent began to make patients social, more (TED Talks), they began to dance in the  (TED Talks), and were explained as being inappropriately  (TED Talks). Brachman not only explains how this drug can help patient through the healing process, but with research and more knowledge, might be able to prevent an illness. She then begins to provide various examples of this issue relating to everyone in society! While the issue pertaining to the use of antidepressants may not be directly affecting everyone directly, it does effect everyone indirectly. By providing a solution to this issue, those both directly and indirectly affected by it will be well educated. By acquiring the proper Rolon 4 knowledge, everyone will be able to spread the positive word on a current controversy. Without proper knowledge, one is not able to correctly educate others, or effectively make a positive change. In the past, there have been non-medical solutions tested, but they have not been as effective as the medical treatments. These solutions include remedies, dieting, therapy, amino acid supplements, and (Hanson). Although these ideas are both harmless and helpful, they are not nearly as effective as an antidepressant. The main issue with depression is a with certain neurotransmitters in the and antidepressants do the job of balancing the neurotransmitters (Nordqvist). Other remedies such as a dose of vitamins or a healthy diet may help a patient feel better but does not entirely fix the issue within the brain. A change of mindset is needed to remove such negative attention surrounding the idea of antidepressants and this change starts with proper knowledge. It is imperative that before speaking on such an issue, one must be properly educated on the topic. Once one is educated, he/she will be able to spread the word and actively make a difference. There are various ways to get involved such as joining greek life events/organizations for patients, joining a club on campus or in school surrounding this topic, volunteering at places that work with depressed patients, participating in research dealing with the medical treatments, or simply talking to someone that is going through depression. It all starts with getting properly informed and educated on why antidepressants are effective. Once someone is properly educated then they must apply the knowledge gained in a way that is beneficial to others. Lastly, getting involved within the community is the best way to give back and spread the positive news surrounding antidepressants. (WC:1201) Rolon 5 Works Cited Ashok Kumar Jainer, Rajkumar Kamatchi, Marek Marzanski and Bettahalasoor Somashekar (2013). Current Advances in the Treatment of Major Depression: Shift Towards Receptor Specific Drugs, Mental Disorders - Theoretical and Empirical Perspectives, Prof. Robert Woolfolk (Ed.), InTech, DOI: 10.5772/52298. Brachman, Rebecca. Brachman: Could a drug prevent depression and PTSD? TED Talk TEDxNewYork, Sept. 2016. Web. 30 Mar. 2017.  Free Farlex, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Ericksen, Stephen E. Advances in Antidepressant Drug Journal of 131.2 (1979): Print. Gillaspy, Rebecca. How Antidepressants Work in the Brain - Video & Lesson  N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Hanson, Katie, et al. Attitudes and Preferences Towards Self-Help Treatments for Depression in Comparison to Psychotherapy and Antidepressant  and Cognitive vol. 44, no. 2, Mar. 2016, pp. 129-139. doi:10.1017/S1352465815000041. Kam, Katherine. Can Antidepressants Work for  WebMD, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Rolon 6 Kramer, Peter D. In Defense of  New York The New York Times, 09 July 2011. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Malhi, Gin S., Yulisha Byrow, Darryl Bassett, Philip Boyce, Malcolm Hopwood, William Lyndon, Roger Mulder, Richard Porter, Ajeet Singh, and Greg Murray. Stimulants for depression: On the up and  & New Zealand Journal of 50.3 (2016): 203-07. Web. 26 Feb. 2016. Nordqvist, Christian. What Are Antidepressants? How Do Antidepressants  News MediLexicon International, 15 Dec. 2015. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Read, John, et al. Are Older People Prescribed Antidepressants on the Basis of Fewer Symptoms of Depression, and for Longer Periods of Time? A Survey of 1825 New  Journal on vol. 35, no. 3, 01 Sept. 2016, pp. 193-197. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/lo gin.aspx?direct=true&db=gnh&AN=EP117925291&site=eds-live. Depression- Causes, Diagnosis and Treatment : Antidepressants: Types, Efficiency and Possible Side Effects : Types, Efficiency and Possible Side Effects. Hauppauge, US: Nova, 2010. ProQuest ebrary. Web. 2 April 2017. Understanding  Web log post. Health Life Media Team, 10 Oct. 2016. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. <http://healthlifemedia.com/healthy/understanding-antidepressants/>. Rolon 7 Winter, Caroline. Dr. Feel Good and the Club Drug  no. 4439, 24 Aug. 2015, pp. 54-59. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=rgm&AN=109010043&site=eds-live.