Rodriguez 1 Keanna Rodriguez Alison Missler ENC1102.044S1713 30 April 2017 #PinkABull For many, college and stress go hand in hand. Furthermore, with approximately 60% of college students being sexually active and the need for 18-year-old women to start visiting gynecologists, the last thing students need to worry about is whether or not they can afford or have access to reproductive healthcare (Lindley 1195; Gupta, Ideally, if no other option arose, Planned Parenthood would be a simple solution to such worries. However, with President recent legislative signing to allow states to decide whether or not they want to fund Planned Parenthood, this may no longer be an option for students. (Dwyer, Signs Although many disagree with their providing of abortions, Planned Parenthood is much more than that, and offers services that would benefit students who cannot afford reproductive healthcare or would like to receive such care off campus. In order to raise awareness about the benefits and the need for Planned Parenthood, on May 12 th , the University of South Florida will be launching the #PinkABull, social media campaign, in an effort to show the solidarity with the organization. In 1916, Planned Parenthood was founded in order to provide women with the care they needed without having to worry about encountering any limitations. According to their website, the mission is to provide healthcare in an environment that will not only protect privacy, but also their individual rights Annually, 2.5 million patients, many of whom are of low-income and uninsured, visit Planned Parenthood to receive affordable Rodriguez 2 services such as pap tests, breast exams, tests and treatments for sexually transmitted infections, and more Parenthood at a At this point you may be thinking that Planned Parenthood is only for women, but actually, anyone can visit Planned Parenthood. In other words, yes, men are just as welcomed as women are. In fact, an estimated 328,676 men have already made the visit Parenthood The services Planned Parenthood offers that specifically target men include cancer screenings (colon, prostate, and testicular), condoms, vasectomies, infertility screenings, erectile dysfunction and premature ejaculation services, STD testing and treatments, and more Sexual In addition to their reproductive healthcare services, you can also receive general healthcare services such as anemia testing, cholesterol and diabetes screening, physical exams (for work or sports), flu shots, and more Health With such diverse services, Planned Parenthood has something to offer everyone. Unfortunately, if they get defunded, they may not be able to continue doing so as 40% of the budget comes from federal funding (Gibson, What would you do if you needed help, but did not know where to go? Such was the case for Anonymous, a 24-year-old women, who was drugged and sexually assaulted one night and could not stop bleeding despite not menstruating. Being that her school was located four states away from her doctor, she decided to go to Planned Parenthood. Anonymous remembers being treated without judgements and given a space to contemplate what happened to her. For these reason, she thanks Planned Parenthood for her life and sanity, as she sought physical and psychological treatment after her initial visit (Pearson, Who knows what could have happened to her had she not had access to Planned Parenthood? Cases like this one show just why Planned Parenthood is so important for college students and should continue Rodriguez 3 being federally funded. Although the University of South Wellness Center and Student Health Services offer similar services to those of Planned Parenthood, students may find comfort in being in a setting away from their peers as an extra effort to maintain their privacy and not feel judged. In other words, it can be seen as a safe space for those who feel like they do not have anywhere else to turn to. Despite the many services and the millions of people who benefit from them, Republican lawmakers want to defund Planned Parenthood because of one particular service: abortions. The argument goes that federal funding should not go towards funding abortions, yet the Hyde Amendment has already made sure that abortions could not be federally funded since 1977 (Gunty 825-826). Furthermore, abortions only account for 3% of their services (Robertson, Planned ). Above trying to take away autonomy over their reproductive healthcare, what these lawmakers fail to realize is that defunding Planned Parenthood could be a matter of life and death, as seen with 24-year-old Anonymous. As previously mentioned, many of Planned patients are either of low-income, uninsured, or both, and are in positions where they have nowhere else to turn to. For instance, Anonymous, a 25-year-old women, lost her insurance when her mother took a leave of absence to cope with her funerals. In order to continue receiving birth control and visits to a gynecologist, she turned to Planned Parenthood. Had it not been for Planned Parenthood, she would have had to hold off, or give up on trying to receive such services and care (Pearson, Additionally, in regards to abortions, if they become unaffordable or unavailable, there may be a rise in the amount of women who seek alternative methods. This can be seen today in states like Texas where only 7% of their counties have abortion clinics. For this reason, misoprostol has grown in popularity among many low-income women, to carry out self-induced Rodriguez 4 abortions. Misoprostol is a drug that is used to treat gastric ulcers, but some doctors administer it to pregnant women to speed up their delivery. Similarly, for women who are very early in their pregnancy, this drug induces miscarriages (Hayden 8). Consequently, because using misoprostol for self-induced abortions is not as safe as the abortions performed by Planned Parenthood, the women who use this drug put themselves at risk of experiencing abdominal pain, pelvic inflammatory disease, and heavy bleeding that may require hospitalization (Yadav 13896). It is evident that Planned Parenthood is very useful, especially for college students. With the Republican Party working towards finding a way to defund it, the University of South Florida will be launching the #PinkABull campaign on May 12 th , in opposition of their efforts and in support of Planned Parenthood. With the success of other social media campaigns like the Bucket we believe that this campaign could be just as (Chapman, To participate, all you have to do is change your profile picture to the color pink and upload a picture of yourself wearing pink or just the color pink, onto your Snapchat, Instagram, Facebook, etc. As Planned Parenthood is for everyone, we want this event to be as well. With this in mind, if you are not into wearing pink, feel free to wear either purple, white, or blue. For those who are low on attire, there will be a booth in the MSC lobby on May 11 th , that will be giving out t-shirts, headbands, snapbacks, and pins. There will also be handouts that talk about the services Planned Parenthood provides for both men and women as well as directions to the nearest Planned Parenthood facility on 56 th street. In order to accomplish this intended purpose of bringing awareness to the importance of Planned Parenthood, along with the photo, participants should include in their captions/descriptions either why they believe Planned Parenthood is important, how Planned Parenthood has helped them or someone they know, or a Rodriguez 5 combination of both. Also, do not forget to include the hashstags: #PinkABull and #StandWithPP. Annually, millions of men and women will visit Planned Parenthood Parenthood at a This means that even if you feel as though you will never need to visit Planned Parenthood, chances are you will probably know someone who will so why not join in the fight to make sure that they can continue to have access to the affordable healthcare services Planned Parenthood has to offer. With this in mind, the University of South Florida acknowledges that Planned Parenthood is a necessity for its students, which is why they want to aid you in your activism and involvement by launching the #PinkABull campaign so that you can share with your friends and family the reasons why Planned Parenthood is beneficial not only for you but for everyone. A problem is not seen as a problem until people start talking about it, so why not start up the conversation; all it takes is posting one picture. Rodriguez 6 Works Cited Chapman, Cheryl. Why Giving Tuesday will last longer than ice bucket  Guardian [London, 2 Dec. 2014. Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Dwyer, Colin. Trump Signs Law Giving States Option to Deny Funding For Planned  NPR. NPR, 13 Apr. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. General Health  General Health Care & Services Offered by Planned Parenthood. Planned Parenthood, 10 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Gibson, Kate. Could Planned Parenthood Survive without Federal  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 06 Feb. 2017. Web. 01 May 2017. Gunty, Susan. HYDE AMENDMENT AND MEDICAID The Forum (Section of Insurance, Negligence and Compensation Law, American Bar Association), vol. 16, no. 4, 1981, pp. Web. 01 May 2017. Gupta, Prachi. College Students Are Not Having Nearly as Much Sex as Everyone Thinks They  Cosmopolitan. Cosmopolitan, 06 Jan. 2017. Web. 01 May 2017. Hayden, Tiana. Private Bleeding: Self-Induced Abortion in the Twenty-First Century United  Gender Issues, vol. 28, no. 4, Dec. 2011, pp. 209-225. Web. 1 May. 2017 Lindley, Lisa L., et al. Receipt of Routine Gynecological Examinations among Sexually Active Female College Students in the United  Journal of Health (15409996), vol. 18, no. 8, Aug. 2009, pp. 1195-1200. EBSCOhost, Aug. 2009. Web. 1 May. 2017. Sexual  Understanding Male Sexual Health. Planned Parenthood, 19 Apr. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Rodriguez 7  Planned Parenthood. Planned Parenthood, 21 May 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Pearson, Catherine. 17 Women Share How Planned Parenthood Transformed Their  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 18 Sept. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Planned Parenthood at a  Planned Parenthood. N.p., 01 Nov. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Planned Parenthood is: Health  Northern New England. Planned Parenthood, 15 Aug. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Robertson, Lori. Planned  FactCheck.org. N.p., 18 Apr. 2011. Web. 01 May 2017. Yadav, Bindoo, Aruna Batra, and Sarika Gautam. Self-induced medical abortion: a rising  Journal of Evolution of Medical and Dental Sciences 4.79 (2015): 13895+. Academic OneFile. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.