Cerelli 1 Nick Cerelli Professor Jackson ENC 1011 April 20, 2017 The Evidence against Keeping Killer Whales in Captivity The killer whale species also referred to as derived from their scientific name (Orcinus orca), is one of the most captured species of whales. These animals are mainly retained for their use in entertainment in sea parks such as the world famous SeaWorld located in Orlando, Florida. These captive whales are kept in tanks, and are trained to perform tricks and stunts that captivate massive audiences from around the world. This captivity has however resulted in a few major problems with some whales such as turning against their trainers and drowning them (Parsons 153). Keeping of whales in captivity for the entertainment runs against growing evidence that captivity defies their natural setup; hence, putting the animals and their keepers at risk of harm or death. The primary issue that exists with captivity is the restricted space afforded to killer whales to socialize. In their natural habitat, Orcas often travel distances of nearly 100km in a day and on top of this, they tend to travel in groups called pods (Robeck et al. 2015) due to their highly social nature. In fact, Orcas tend to go in the same groups for their entire lifetime. Male Orcas have been noted to stay with their mothers throughout their lives as well, to a point where the male will go to mate but still return to his mother afterwards, being the only mammal species to do this. Therefore, keeping the orcas in a restricted area such as a tank deprives the whales of their natural ability to socialize, making them wallow in the despair of loneliness and repetitive action, which is a cause of frustration to the whales. Cerelli 2 Furthermore, killer whales often derive their eating habits and other such behaviors from the groups they travel with also known as (Riesch et al. 2012). Therefore, not all killer whales feed on the same animals, and they also have different breeding preferences. More often than not different ecotypes do not associate with each other in the wild and this may be a source of conflict and frustration for the whales. Hardly do any trainers as well as the people keeping the animals take this matter into consideration as they often feed the killer whales with similar meals across the board. The trainers also do not seriously consider the breeding patterns that have already developed amongst these species, and often breed the killer whales blindly (Riesch et al. 2012). The result of this practice is that some killer whales have developed a level of aggression that has not been observed in the wild with some cases of orcas attacking their trainers or attacking other species that they are paired with at performances. This aggression has come about as a result of frustration from the way these whales are treated, due to the ignorance of their fundamental requirements. Therefore, this proves that orcas should be allowed to roam free in the wild to naturally develop their behaviors and be able to achieve their maximum potential with regards to development. Additionally, captive killer whales are being reported to be severely unhealthy, and this has consequently caused them to die prematurely during their time in captivity. These illnesses have mainly come as a result of infections derived while in the tank and problems associated with the diet that they are kept on. While in the marine tanks orcas are reported to gnaw their teeth along the lining of the tanks, and along the rails in the tanks, as a result of boredom, stress and sometimes because of frustration (Ventre, 2015). This habit has led to the development of infections amongst the whales leading to serious health issues that sometimes result in death. Cerelli 3 With regards to the diet, the orcas are kept on an unnatural diet of dead fish for protein and to keep them hydrated. This meal does not suit their needs since the killer whales require a massive amount of hydration and nutrients that they usually obtain from their prey and this is something that they are deprived of at the marine parks. As a result, the killer whales in captivity do not mature as efficiently as those that are in the wild. In fact, it has been reported that wild orca males tend to live for around 30 years (Robeck et al. 2015) while that of the males in captivity is only 13 years. This statistic highlights the significant difference between the two environments and hence proves that killer whales should be left in the wild instead of being kept in captivity. However, some people argue that keeping orcas in captivity has helped create awareness on their importance and highlight environmental issues that threaten their existence (Ventre, et al. 2015). It is also claimed that it protects the environment by minimizing disturbances on the ecosystem (Wearing, et al, 2015). The invention of these attractions that feature the killer whales has indeed raised public awareness on the endangerment that this species faces with more people attending being made aware. In fact, this is not the case as most of these facilities promote the of these species as opposed to the actual education of issues that are being faced by the killer whales. Additionally, there are arguments that the whales are being kept for research purposes within the marine parks. In reality, we obtain more information about the orcas from academic institutions as compared to the marine park systems (Pearson, 2012). In fact, the main thing we have learned from marine parks is that whales should not be kept in and should be released into the wild. Lastly, some people argue that killer whales that have been held in captivity cannot be released back into the wild (Trouwborst et al. 2013). In truth, there Cerelli 4 have only been a negligible amount of whales that have been unable to survive in the wild, and most of the ones that were released back into the ocean have not survived or been able to adapt. Evidently, keeping these killer whales in captivity is proving to be more harmful to their well-being than helpful as some people suggest. In fact, the reasons for captivity do not justify keeping these killer whales as they do not have a concrete basis for forming an argument. Therefore these animals should not be kept in captivity in marine parks across the globe; they should instead be allowed to roam free and be able to interact with other whales of their choice as they please. They should also be authorized to be free and swim as much as is healthy for them and socialize as much as they please in the wild. It is only then that killer whales will be able to obtain peak development, and therefore be able to live longer and achieve their maximum potential naturally and continue the spread of the killer whale generation for years to come. Cerelli 5 Works Cited Parsons, E. C. M. Killer whale  Tourism in Marine Environments 8.3 (2012): 153-160. Riesch, et al. Cultural traditions and the evolution of reproductive isolation: ecological speciation in killer  Biological Journal of the Linnean Society 106.1 (2012): 1- 17. Robeck, Todd R., et al. Comparisons of life-history parameters between free-ranging and captive killer whale (Orcinus orca) populations for application toward species  Journal of mammalogy (2015): 1055-1070 Trouwborst, Arie, Richard Caddell, and Ed Couzens. To free or not to free? State obligations and the rescue and release of marine mammals: a case study of the  Transnational Environmental Law 2.01 (2013): 117-144. Ventre, Jeffrey, and John Jett. Killer whales, theme parks and controversy: An exploration of the evidence. Channel View Publications: Bristol, United Kingdom, 2015. Wearing, Stephen, and Chantelle Jobberns. Has Ecotourism improved the rights of  Animals and Tourism: Understanding Diverse Relationships 67 (2015): 75-87