Joseph Parker May 7, 2017 Project 3 Final Draft Uddin Composition 1 Climatic data indicates there has been a steady increase in the global temperature over the last 150 years (Keating), a phenomenon now referred to as global warming. Most scientists agree that this recent change in climate is anthropogenic in nature, yet many American politicians make fallacious claims that any increases in temperature are due to random fluctuations and the unpredictability of nature. Even amongst those who believe global warming has been caused by industrialization there are debates on the issue of how to deal with it. I believe unless a paradigm shift occurs towards a culture of sustainability and we are as stringent as possible with carbon emissions global warming will cross a threshold yielding irreversible effects on various aspects of American society. In my opinion the criticality of climate change mandates mass implementation of renewable energy source infrastructure and new environment-friendly policies. In an article titled Potential Emissions of CO2 and Methane from Proved Reserves of Fossil Fuels: An Alternative Analysis, Richard Heede states: climate change presents a serious threat to the health, prosperity, and stability of human communities, to the stability and existence of non-human species and ecosystems, and to international political and military Richard Tol, a professor specializing in the economic impact of global warming, writes Weather affects agriculture, energy use, health, and many aspects of which in turn affects everything and (1) showing how both these authors recognize not only how crucial the stability of the climate is to people and how the ones throwing it out of balance. Older publiations focus more on the effects of climate change than the newer writings, which have an emphasis on trying to mitigate the damage caused by climate change, as opposed to just chronicling in. These old sources detail agricultural, financial, and ecological consequences of climate change. Richard Tol says of the monetary impact effect of a doubling of the atmospheric concentration of greenhouse gas emissions on the current economy: few percentage points of GDP... From one perspective, roughly equivalent to a growth in the global suggests that over a century or so, the economic loss from climate change is not all that (5). He goes on to say benefits of a modest increase in [due carbon dioxide in the atmosphere reduces in plants and may make them grow (6) but this is followed by exponentially adverse effects as temperature continues to increase. Richard backlund states that livestock will be affected very negatively, experiencing feed intake, feed efficiency, reproduction, animal gain, and milk production. Increased disease susceptibility, and (Backlund 74). This source says there are a lot of severe repercussions to biodiversity about to be incurred if a change is not made, and many of these are already in progress. Ecosystems are at risk due to the reduction of keystone species, the most valuable in terms of maintaining the stability of the environment. I believe the only way to proceed involves a switch to renewable energy, and think this change must occur on both a national and individual scale. In an older source, Renewable Energy: Tax Credit, Budget, and Electricity Production Issues, the author describes how with metering allows customers with generating facilities to their electric meters when feeding power into the grid; they receive retail prices for the excess electricity they and how when the energy is distributed many of the large transportation fees are eliminated, (Sissine 9). More evidence to support the fact that the shift to sustainable energy must occur on an individual scale comes in the article Rooftop Solar: Net Metering is a Net Benefit, in which the author says what does the accumulating national literature on costs and benefits of net metering say? Increasingly it whether conducted by PUCs, national labs, or academics that the economic benefits of net metering actually outweigh the costs and impose no significant cost increase for non-solar customers. Far from a net cost, net metering is in most cases a net the utility and for non-solar (Muro). In the article Green Versus Brown: Comparing the Employment Impacts of Energy Efficiency, Renewable Energy, and Fossil Fuels Using an Input-Output Model, Harold Garrett-Peltier writes number of researchers using input-output modeling have found positive employment impacts resulting from the growth of renewable energy and highlights the 7.49 full-time-equivalent jobs created per 1 million dollars of spending created by renewable energy compared to the 2.65 associated with fossil fuel (Garrett-Peltier). The author admits that current drawback of using I-O models to study clean energy impacts is that renewable energy industries and energy efficiency industries are not explicitly identified as industrial categories in national (Garrett-Peltier). This demonstrates that while these numbers are far from concrete, implementing renewable energy infrastructure on a massive scale has much more job-creating potential and positive financial effects than the fossil fuel industries that currently act as primary means of energy acquisition. Despite all the evidence in support of moving away from the burning of fossil fuels, many still believe that they have unparalleled potential for rapid energy accumulation, and this outweighs the impact on the environment by making America better equipped to deal with the adverse effects of climate change. In a journal article titled The Truth About Sea Levels, the author states unmatched scale of cheap, plentiful, reliable energy from hydrocarbons has enabled us to build and maintain a durable civilization that is increasingly safe from inherently unstable and dangerous sea (Epstein). This article take into consideration the fact that hydrocarbons (fossil fuels) are in short supply, and that global warming yields many threats far worse than an increased sea level. Experts predict that the current fossil fuel reserves in America will only last us approximately 13 years, (Heede) whereas renewable energy, obviously, will never be depleted. This article also says nothing about the agricultural effects, ecological effects, or the increased extreme weather events that global warming yields. Because we are now feeling the effects of carbon emission from decades ago, I share the view of most people publishing on climate change and believe the urgency of this issue mandates a new mindset and new climate policies including a shift to more renewable energy sources. I agree with majority of scholars and share belief that without a serious shift from already established culture of unsustainable behavior and new green legislation there will be serious financial and ecological consequences, including lives lost and damaged properties from increased catastrophic weather events and increased sea level. Because current fossil fuel reserves last long, I believe this change must occur between the next 15 years. Works Cited Backlund, Peter, Anthony C. Janetos, and David Steven. Schimel. The effects of climate change on agriculture, land resources, water resources, and biodiversity in the United States. New York: Nova Science, 2009. Print. Epstein, Alex. The Truth About Sea  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 22 Mar. 2016. Web. 05 May 2017. Garrett-Peltier, Heidi. Green versus brown: Comparing the employment impacts of energy efficiency, renewable energy, and fossil fuels using an input-output  Economic Modelling 61 (2017): 439-47. Web. Keating, Christopher. Global  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Science, January. EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct =true&db=ers&AN=88953012&site=eds-live. Muro, Mark, and Devashree Saha. Rooftop solar: Net metering is a net benefit Brookings  Brookings. Brookings, 28 July 2016. Web. 05 May 2017. Garrett-Peltier, Heidi. Green versus brown: Comparing the employment impacts of energy efficiency, renewable energy, and fossil fuels using an input-output  Economic Modelling 61 (2017): 439-47. Web. Tol, Richard S. J. The Economic Effects of Climate  Journal of Economic Perspectives 23.2 (2009): 29-51. Web. 5 May 2017.