Kostitsyn 1 David Dr. Richard F. Gaspar ENC 2 May 2017 Goodwill-Suncoast and SMART: Searching for the Right Path toward Solving the Issue of Overconsumption Presently, the phenomena of urban sprawl, overconsumption, and excessive littering have become world-scale issues, and their solution is going to be versatile in many ways. With that in mind, it is evident that absolute majority of consumers have ever wondered where the litter, rubbish, and waste go after being dumped. Coping with the enormous volume of non-demanded stuff inevitably leads to cluttering vast territories with municipal waste and turning wildlife areas into dumpsites, of which used textiles constitute a major part. Notably, it is in the developed countries that the disposal of used clothing keeps giving more causes for alarm than before. This can be easily proven through statistical figures; thus, in accordance with fashionunited.com internet source, the overall global apparel market is valued at 3 trillion dollars, 3,000 billion, and accounts for 2 percent of the GDP, with over 80 billion pieces of clothing and footwear produced annually worldwide (Strijbos, Bram). Currently, the fashion industry has canons that require regular alterations in the outfits. Consequently, old and worn-out items become non- demanded; even so, they keep taking up space and need to be discarded. There are currently two angles on the optimal way to cope with used textiles since they can be either re-used or recycled. Despite the fact that the two approaches are different, the common grounds can be clearly traced, as they both deal with the question of how used material goods can be benefited from. When it comes to recycling used textiles, the first stakeholder to analyze is SMART. This organization states its objective as applying the technological know-how with the purpose of making the most out of used clothes. According to it, 85 % of all clothing ends up in the dumpsites, thus being totally useless, even though applying basic recycling technologies would help to utilize them. It is absolutely Kostitsyn 2 relevant to estimate SMART official website (SMART) in order to receive the proper impression. SMART, which stands for materials and recycled positions itself as an international trade association and promotes worldwide the opportunities of innovative methods in recycling textiles. Participation in recycling is considered to be a social responsibility, and SMART presents it as a way of making money as well. In fact, they have been successfully coping with these goals throughout decades, since 1932. Thus, it can be confidently inferred that the organization is taking up the challenge of making average consumers more environmentally aware by encouraging everyone to prevent the overall clustering caused by the growing volume of refuse and waste. Additionally, SMART Company is involved into further socially beneficial activities. Not only does it apply proper technologies to give a second life to used textiles but also promotes the active participation of average consumers by getting across the message like not pretend it does not concern you: we are all in the same SMART are not alone in their initiative: in the state of Connecticut, Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (Protection, Department Of Environment) has long been running campaigns dedicated to recycling (and actually reusing) second-hand textiles. Particularly it claims that at most 5% of used clothes prove to be unusable, while 45% are sold as second apparel, 20% are reprocessed intro fiber, and 30% can be remade into technical clothes. It is worth mentioning that such extended range of functions is a guarantee of secure direct employment. Evidently, in the world where there are fewer and fewer biodegradable substances around, any attempts to promote recycling and prevent the issues of over-cluttering are supposed to pay off, which is another effective proof of SMART being at the right time and place. Yet only recycling by itself is no universal answer to the existing issue, namely due to the fact that the recycling process is technologically complicated and energy-consuming. In these terms, the second stakeholder called Goodwill-Suncoast appears to have adapted more to the needs of time and society. Basically, they position themselves as a job creator and this organization does manage to embrace a broader range of causes. Anyone who visits their website can notice the following inscription: Kostitsyn 3 STUFF. CREATE Getting acquainted with their website front page (Goodwill-Suncoast) leaves the impression that successful work in this direction is only feasible as a combination of activities (in areas like employment, housing, correction), which earns the company experience and reputation and therefore enables it to live up to expectations. Similarly, an organization called Trans-Americas Trading Co. Export Buyers Of Used ) from Clifton, New Jersey, has been successfully specializing in processing post-consumer textiles for over seven decades, with focus on purchasing, processing and selling. Their range of operations goes far beyond recycling as they also cater goods to retro stores as well as to film industry. This demonstrates another effective example of a business keeping up with the times. The search for various ways to apply used fabrics is reflected in the work of colleague organizations: Planet Aid deals closely not only with collecting, processing, shipping and selling the second-hand clothes to the third world What We ) but also increases public awareness in countries like the USA in order to convince more people that there is simply not enough demand in the U.S. for all their castoffs. Finally, it warns clearly that simply giving things away in developing regions is rather detrimental to the local economies, so a well-organized trade is to be maintained instead. Proceeding to aspects of sustaining the planet, the issue is being more covered in mass media. A case in point is a publication in Forbes (Flynn, Kerry. Textile Recycling: A For-Profit Startup Success among Controversy. (Flynn, Kerry). The author hereby highlights the tendencies on the part of non-profit and for-profit organizations to unite in their efforts so as to make urban life more convenient. This is attained not just through introducing new technologies but also through raising public awareness about the essence of each contribution. On top of all, the key priorities submitted are not about recycling but composting and reprocessing fabrics into material for rags, stuffing, or insulation as decent alternatives, which is reassuring. The issue is becoming frequently reflected in the blogosphere a form of media whose influence if hard to overrate. Thus, BNB International Textiles Inc. posted and article in 2015 in its blog titled as Kostitsyn 4 Make Money Selling Used Clothes Online Pharmacy - Canadian Pharmacy Buy ), encouraging to sell the garments that are no longer worn and thus support developing states. The rating of demand for clothes, from dresses to pants is provided. The article indicates that readers are encouraged to perceive the disposal of their own used clothes as a small an effective technique for involving even those who previously were indifferent about the matter. Global trade of used clothing was also covered in a blog by Sheng Lu (Lu, Sheng.), where certain visuals (bar charts and graphs) make it evident that the global trade of used textiles is increasing worldwide and four out of six key exporters of used clothing are located in North America and EU (the USA, the UK, Germany, and the Netherlands). Summarizing the two approaches (recycling vs. processing and reselling used textiles), various key reasons for both options have been determined. At the same time, the compromising point is the fact that both solutions (recycling and reselling) had better be seen as compatible (i.e. they can be included in the range of activities done by the same organizations), with actions that are more appropriate to take depending on what material they deal with and who end users will be. While natural textiles can be recycled, synthetic ones cannot. A truly effective company on this market is to be not only a recycler and trade but also the structure which takes forward public instruction and encourages ordinary consumers to sort and submit their used garments instead of sending them to landfill sites. In these terms, there is something for SMART to learn from Goodwill-Suncoast, as it is an organization that does not concern only recycling yet it positions itself as a creator of workplaces where anyone can fulfill their potential and gets involved in collecting and re-allocating used material goods including textiles. Although both companies share similar interests in making the world a cleaner place, the methods need to be varied, the more the better (WC 1405). Kostitsyn 5 Work cited Digitek, Potomac. SMART: Donate, Recycle, Throw Away - Recycle Clothing, Shoes, & More. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Export Buyers Of Used  Trans-Americas Trading Co. - World Leader in Recycled Clothing Solutions. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Apr. 2017. Flynn, Kerry. Textile Recycling: A For-Profit Startup Success Among  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 27 Aug. 2014. Web. 02 May 2017. Goodwill-Suncoast, Goodwill Industries Suncoast. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 May 2017Strijbos, Bram. Global Fashion Industry Statistics - International  Fashionunited. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Apr. 2017. Lu, Author Sheng. Global Trade of Used Clothing (Updated: October  FASH455 Global Apparel & Textile Trade and Sourcing. N.p., 17 July 2016. Web. 02 May 2017. Online Pharmacy - Canadian Pharmacy Buy  BNB Textiles. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 May 2017. Protection, Department Of Environmental. DEEP: Textiles Reuse & Recycling. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 May 2017. We What Happens to Your Used Clothing? - Planet Aid, Inc. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 May 2017.