Fish 1 Mason Fish Instructor Townsend ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Direct-to-Consumer Drug Advertising: the Argument Picture ten of your closest family members and friends: those who you love and cherish the most. According to the Mayo Clinic, seven of these ten people take prescription drugs, and all ten of them have most likely been exposed to prescription drug ads (Sparks). Drug companies spend billions of dollars on advertisements because they are shown to work. Depicting an individual who has a problem, providing a solution to the problem in the form of a small and magical tablet, and providing a cinematic frame of reference for the situation is a good way to convince an audience to spend their money on a certain drug. However, drug advertisements are highly unregulated media which increase costs, misinform patients, and lead to inappropriate prescribing. As a USF student you may not be currently taking prescription drugs, but there is a good chance that someone close to you does. For this reason, you should take a stand against prescription drug ads by signing petitions, contacting your local representative, and donation to organizations who are helping to solve the problem. In 2015 drug companies spent over $5 billion dollars in drug advertising on TV, in magazines, and in the newspaper (Robbins). no secret that drug advertising is all over the place. difficult to view the television without an ad coming up. As stated by Pfizer, drug prices are at a record high due to increased drug advertising and the need for further research and development (Picchi). Along with this, consumers are opting for the brand name drug they view in the advertisements even though a cheaper drug with similar efficacy and safety profiles is Fish 2 available. In these ways, the cost to consumers has been increased dramatically. The largest issue with drug advertisements is their unregulated nature which has the tendency to mislead patients. In a recent study it was shown that only 26% of all prescription ads contained risk factors for the drug. The same study found that over 50% of patients thought that ads were approved by the FDA or government when they are not, and 43% thought that only completely safe drugs can be advertised when this is not the case (Ventola). In reality, a drug can be advertised before its clinical trials have been completely finished. One example of this was the case of Vioxx which was developed by Merck. Between 1999 to 2004 Merck spent hundreds of millions of dollars in drug advertising yielding over a billion dollars in sales. Patients were specifically asking for this drug as it was touted to be safer and more effective than all competitor drugs. However, as time passed it was found out that when combined with other medications, Vioxx caused multiple cases of death through strokes and heart attacks If Merck had not so heavily advertised their product at this time, lives may have been saved in the process. A study conducted on inappropriate prescribing tells us that at around 40% of doctor visits patients have asked for a drug which was inappropriate for their condition. Although only about half of these were actually granted by a physician, most requests were for drugs which patients had viewed in advertisements (Ventola). hard to believe that a doctor would prescribe a medication which is wrong for a condition. Although this decision may not be dangerous most of the time, doctors whose patients died from prescribing the drug Vioxx before complete safety trials were done would assuredly disagree. After learning about the ways that drug advertising can harm a life, it becomes easier to understand why there are many individuals and groups who oppose these ads. Although Fish 3 you may not know someone who was killed by Vioxx or a similar new drug, over 50 new drugs reach the market every year (Munos). These are all new opportunities for drug manufactures to exercise their rights to design convincing commercials to mislead the people you care about. The National Institute of Drug Abuse states that 1 in 9 individuals between the ages of 12 and 25 are at risk for prescription drug abuse (Sparks). This means that even more young people than this are taking prescription drugs at all. Even if you or someone you know been physically damaged by prescription drugs, you may know someone who has had their life savings ripped away from them due to extremely high medication costs. As young students with a voice and a purpose, we can make a difference to prevent these things from happening to ourselves, to people we care about, and to 70% of the entire population as a whole who takes prescription drugs (Sparks). Although completely stopping prescription drug advertisements is unlikely, there are things that we as consumers can do to prevent those we care about from facing the harms of drug ads. There are currently groups like the World Health Organization and the American Medical Association who strive to educate the world on important issues. They believe that prescription drug advertisements should be stopped, and they dedicate some of their resources to help educate those who are unaware of the dangers of the current standard of drug advertisements. A donation to their organization could help save lives in this way. Also, other groups are working on remedies which would help avoid the issues that drug ads cause. Some examples of these are to delay advertising for new products until complete safety profiles are known, require clearance of the ads by the FDA, require more information in the advertisements such as drug cost information and side effects, and increase education and patient comprehension (Ventola). These remedies have some backing, but in order to truly make a difference we need to bring these Fish 4 solutions directly to our local representatives through petitions and informative literature. By further educating the population in these ways and encouraging the population to listen to highly trained medical professionals rather than ads only, we can create a society in America which is no longer misinformed by drug companies, no longer led to spend their hard-earned money on brand name medications, and at the same time avoid inappropriate prescribing and even death. Working together, we can make a difference. Fish 5 Works Cited Munos, Bernard. New Drug Approvals Hit 66-Year Pharma and Healthcare. Forbes. Jan, 2016. Web. Retrieved from https://www.forbes.com/sites/bernardmunos/2016/01/04/2015-new-drug-approvals-hit- 66-year-high/#23f827777874 Picchi, Aimee. ads: $5.2 billion annually and CBS money watch. CBS. March, 2016. Web. Retrieved from http://www.cbsnews.com/news/drug-ads-5-2-billion- annually-and-rising/ Robbins, Rebecca. makers now spend $5 billion a year on advertising. what that STATnews. March, 2016. Web. Retrieved from https://www.statnews.com/2016/03/09/drug-industry-advertising/ Sparks, Dana. 7 in 10 Americans Take Prescription Drugs, Mayo Clinic, Olmsted Medical Center Mayo Clinic. NewsNetwork. June, 2013. Web. Retrieved from http://newsnetwork.mayoclinic.org/discussion/nearly-7-in-10-americans-take- prescription-drugs-mayo-clinic-olmsted-medical-center-find/ Ventola, Lee. Pharmaceutical Advertising Therapeutic or U.S. National Library of Medicine. Pharmacy and Therapeutics. Oct, 2011. Web. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3278148/ (rofecoxib) Questions and U.S. Food and Drug Administration. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Sept, 2004. Web. Retrieved from https://www.fda.gov/drugs/drugsafety/postmarketdrugsafetyinformationforpatientsandpro viders/ucm106290.htm