Caleb Scott Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 30 March 2017 Over the years many Americans have considered the elimination of the penny without thinking about how catastrophic the results could be.The elimination of the penny is risky because of the possible economical impact. Removing the penny is tricky because if Americans voted for the elimination of the penny everything would be rounded to the nickel. This would increase the costs of goods because stores would always make sure that prices round up causing what has been described as a by Raymond E Lombra. If Americans want to avoid this then they need to keep the penny in circulation by voting against the elimination of the penny. In the late the American people were calling for the removal of the penny from their currency system. They claimed that it was time to retire this old form of currency and also wanted to make a dollar coin to replace the dollar bill(Lombra). Replacing the dollar bill with a coin would only push Americans to remove another coin from circulation. An organization under the name of Americans for common sense sent Raymond E Lombra before the senate to speak on their behalf. Raymond made an amazing argument that day that is still used to this day. Besides the possibly dismissable sentimental reasons he brought forth the possibility of a rounding tax. Raymonds claim was that with the elimination of the penny everything would be rounded to the nickel and businesses would abuse this. If companies were to price their products so that the prices rounded up lower income households would be hit hard.To prevent this Americans need to educate themselves about the rules and regulations surrounding the legislation of the penny. The dangers of eliminating the penny be taken lightly and the senate understood this and voted against removing the penny. Again in 1994 the idea of removing the penny from circulation still appealed to some individuals even though the ideas obvious dangers have been brought into the light. New Republics article brings the same problems back into the light to shut down the idea once more. This goes to show that the danger of this rounding tax is no laughing matter. At this point the Senate still feel confident enough to risk removing the penny from circulation and neither should the public( New Republic). A more recent publication by Amy Livingston provides a strong argument for the elimination of the penny. She begins by stating that it cost more than a penny to make a penny,1.7 cents per penny to be precise.Although the American Government is investing more into pennies they get multiple uses out of each one before they fall out of circulation. Livingston also points out the environmental concerns related to transporting pennies and resources to and from mints. In response to the environmental concerns that Livingston voices any and all pollution is bad, but the amount of pollution caused by the mines is miniscule compared to other sources. The last of her concerns lie with the time consumed by pennies. to Retire the U.S. cites a study done by Walgreens and the National Association of Convenience Stores showing that handling pennies adds an average of two seconds to each cash example receiving change from a transaction it might take an employee a few seconds longer to tender change to a customer because of pennies. At first glance this may sound like a great point that could sway some, but in article she admits that there is little to no research on the topic. Another topic that livingston touches on lightly is that charities rely on them. Think about how often you see commercials saying For just a few pennies a day you can change the Ads like these cause Americans to get emotionally attached to pennies because they can help people who are in a worse position than them. If Americans are worried about helping others they should pull all their pennies together and save the world. In conclusion important that every American understand the risks associated with removing the penny from circulation. The limitless possibilities may be unsettling but everyone should be educated on this topic. When Americans complain about pennies they should think first about the risk of a recession or a crumbling economy. Second they need to consider all of the history associated with the coin and how the only coin bearing image. Lastly Americans need to keep in mind that in the past the idea was shot down for a reason. The danger in removing the penny from circulation is real and Americans even consider the idea of following through with it. Word Count: 846 Works cited 1) .Amy Livingston,Should we get rid of the penny, , , http://www.moneycrashers.com/get-rid-penny-reasons/ 2)Jennie Cohen , 10 things you didnt know about the penny march, 30, 2012, http://www.history.com/news/10-things-you-didnt-know-about-the-penny 3)Americans for common cents, Lombras testimony before the senate June 20 king-committee 4) Scholastic,Inc., Should we get rid of the Penny?, 2014 , http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=e03dd3d4-996c-47 96-b8b2-0ad4a57dfe5f%40sessionmgr4010&vid=29&hid=4113