Rodriguez Rojas !1 Roxana Rodriguez Rojas Instructor Brenden Jackson ENC 1101 4/9/17 The Impacts of Animal Agriculture on the Environment Around the globe, consuming animal products has become a normal part of many diet. There is plenty of information that is in favor of having a meat-based diet but do not take into account of what impacts animal agriculture has on things other than humans. EPA.gov defines animal agriculture or (animal feeding operations) as, operations where animals are kept and raised in confined Many people mindlessly consume these foods without even realizing what kinds of effects it has on the environment. The waste these farms produce do not just disappear and being in these is not always sanitary. Farmers have their ways of keeping things relatively disease-free but at what cost? With the growing global population and an increase of living standards, the world is being forced to produce more food at a faster rate. This demand for food is almost unprecedented and alarming. If we continue down this path then there may be unforeseen consequences for our actions. The way in which humans produce animals for consumption is not sustainable, has more consequences than benefits and is becoming more clear than ever that it is in desperate need of regulation. Raising any kind of livestock for production requires a large quantity of that animal to be able to make profit and meet market demands. All of those animals create many different kinds of waste such as manure, bedding, milk-house wash water, as well as animals that have died Rodriguez Rojas !2 during production. If not properly managed, these by-products can end up in nearby groundwater, surface water or create manure methane and phosphorus. Author Charles W. Abdalla, PhD, also pointed out the rising concern in air quality because of emissions produced by the animal agriculture sector. Aside from odor concerns from being in close proximity to these industrial farms, dust and particulate matter is becoming alarming to many. One of the concerns is coming from bioaerosols, that can be released through practices such as spray irrigation and from the air coming out of confined situations. Abdalla defines bioaerosols as airborne particles that contain microorganisms or their (177). These have the potential to induce human and animal diseases as well as microbial toxins. Little regulation and the mismanagement waste is one of the roots of pollution. While there are plenty of arguments stating that industrial farms can only mismanage waste because of the immense amount of work it takes to supervise the waste, there are some who believe waste control is easier than it appears. Biologist and author, Colin Tudge, pointed out what we as a species are doing wrong at raising livestock and what we should do to replace those practices. Farming that resembles nature, in the sense that it, its inputs from renewables; wasting nothing; diverse; balancing crops (plants) against livestock (Tudge, 11) would be a solution to many issues within the animal agriculture sector. Reverting to ancient practices that adhere to dry and wet seasons will be able to sustain both human and animal demand for crops while meeting the demand for meat. Going back to these practices are also not as risky as they seem, the world has faced countless anthropogenic and natural disasters, nevertheless, it has persisted for billions of years. Rodriguez Rojas !3 If the tangible waste that is produced from animal agriculture did not have any environmental impacts then we would still be forgetting one very significant emission every breathing thing produces. Greenhouse gases are on the rise and of all industries that produce the animal agriculture industry is the largest contributor to these emissions. Due to global standards of living and global population is increasing, the demand for livestock products of any kind will also naturally increase. Increasing demand will result in more livestock being raised creating more methane and nitrogen dioxide levels in the atmosphere. Tim A. McAllister, PhD, noted that weather events has led to a growing awareness of the potential contribution of anthropomorphic sources of greenhouse gases (GHG), including agriculture, to climate (Introduction). Weather patterns that drastically change do not go unnoticed and can only truly be regulated by policies. Many developing nations, in particular, could potentially struggle to keep up with the constantly changing policies because they do not have as many resources or technologies readily available. Policies, in this case, may not be as effective for reducing GHG emissions from the agricultural sector unless more developed countries assisted them. Regulating emissions and waste may benefit the environment but many argue that regulations could hurt the economy and jobs. According to Igrow.org, in the United States alone, the agricultural sector provides over 1 million jobs, almost $350 billion in total economic output, $15 billion in income taxes, and $6 billion in property taxes. Regulations of any kind can have a huge impact on these jobs as well as the economy because of the need for production to slow temporarily. Many people depend on these jobs to keep them or their family afloat and most Rodriguez Rojas !4 likely afford to be put out of work. The agriculture sector also plays a key role in promoting economic health and growth making strict regulation a greater threat. What many consumers forget to think about when debating on whether or not animal agriculture is sustainable is the amount of natural resources livestock needs to be raised. Aysha Z. Akhtar, MD, MPH, recognizes how much it truly takes to produce livestock by pointing out that agriculture constitutes 30% of the total land (182). This percentage is the largest use of land used by humans among all other uses. The amount of plant protein it takes to feed the amount of livestock being could actually help alleviate a large part of the growing concern of global food shortages. In addition to enormous land use and plant protein use, animal agriculture also uses about 70% of freshwater for everyday use. This great use of freshwater can potentially trigger droughts in areas because water sources get replenished fast enough. Raising livestock is easily one of the biggest threats to the health of the environment. Although there are many concerns for this high use of natural resources, some argue that having large scale production sites could actually be beneficial for consumers in particular. Industrial farms may be large scale but if there were less then, according to Beefmagazine.com, this would result in productivity -- increased production using far less labor, land and natural resources- and decreased food prices to (Large Scale). These large, few production sites could actually make the economy grow more because lower prices mean people will be more inclined to buy more. The more that is being sold the more that needs to be produced which further increases productivity. Animal agriculture is the backbone of humans as a species, so many of us rely on animal products almost every day of our lives. It leads to job opportunity as well as economic growth Rodriguez Rojas !5 but in many cases, it can be very detrimental to the environment. Animal agriculture is the highest contributor to GHG emissions, waste from this industry can contaminate water and air systems, and uses an immense amount of natural resources that can be used to alleviate world hunger. Making the livestock industry large scale and with little competition can actually create monopolies and create an even bigger concern for water and air pollution. Regulation and policies are crucial for the health of the planet and the health of humans. Rodriguez Rojas !6 Works Cited Abdalla, C.W. and J.L. Lawton. Environmental Issues in Animal  Choices : The Magazine of Food, Farm, and Resource Issues, no. 3, 2006. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? direct=true&db=edsagr&AN=edsagr.US201301113507&site=eds-live. Akhtar, Aysha Z., et al. Current Issue: Health Roles in Animal Agriculture, Climate Change, and Human  American Journal of Preventive Medicine, vol. 36, 01 Jan. 2009, pp. 182-187. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.amepre.2008.09.043. IGrow, SDSU. Economic Benefits of the Livestock  IGrow SDSU Extension. N.p., 7 July 2014. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. McAllister, Tim A., et al. Greenhouse Gases in Animal Agriculture--Finding a Balance between Food Production and  Animal Feed Science and Technology, 2011. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? direct=true&db=edsagr&AN=edsagr.US201400016668&site=eds-live. Source: Feedstuffs; By: Rod Smith Apr 06, 2009. Structure Has Beef Magazine, 16 Dec. 2011, www.beefmagazine.com/sectors/0407-large-scale-structure- benefits. Accessed 3 Apr. 2017. Webster, John and Joyce The Meat Crisis : Developing More Sustainable Production and Consumption. Routledge, 2010. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http:// search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=nlebk&AN=339081&site=eds-live.