Esperance !1 Queenie G. Esperance Professor Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 012 May 7, 2017 Immigration Reform The United States has prospered economically, socially, and in many other ways from the strive of immigrants. However, the growing number of undocumented immigrants and the lack of security has brought on debates regarding bans, building walls, and enforcing laws to keep immigrants out of the United States. While many scholars believe that national benefits for the government are more important than the welfare of immigrants, this paper will argue that the welfare of immigrants should be above all else. In the past few years, immigrants have encountered the wrong end of the sword as one would put it. There has been policy changes targeting the immigrants in order to protect native- born citizens from the potential harm they pose to the economy. Scholar Johns stated, governments a series of policies severely diluting the rights and protections available to (J. Brian Johns, p.541). The United States is meant to be a civilized country that cares about the well being of everyone in it and provide human rights for everyone. When policy changes are taking place and breaking the human rights of non-citizens, it is considered unethical. Though the immigrants are not native-born, everyone deserves to feel safe and protected in the country in. The United government feels the need to be cautious with the number of immigrants continuously growing, which is why the government Esperance !2 makes drastic policies. Even though the policies made by the government are extreme, the objective is to provide security for the United States. Scholar Samira argument for the United jarring policies is that the harsh laws prevent any future terrorist attacks on the United States (p.298). The statement that every action has a well founded motive has proven to be a true statement in the fight with immigrants. The United States has encountered many terrorist attacks that has made the government cautious of any foreigners. Scholar states, the national security discourse justifies the deportation-complex that is fueling the mass expulsion of Hispanic immigrants, and the degrading treatment of detained (Afzali, p.299). Deportation has been the presented solution to keep foreigners from attempting another attack or committing criminal acts. Groups of agents are gathering undocumented criminal immigrants as well non criminals and sending them back to their country of origin which breaks families apart. However, there are other thoughts regarding the motive of the United States government in proposing deportation as a solution. Even though the United States government has the right motive in trying to protect its citizens from further terrorist attacks, human rights for immigrants are violated in the process. According to Wadhia, reforms to the visa waiver program are a reasonable platform for discussion, building a policy on the assumption that Muslims pose a greater threat than others is alienating and counterproductive to (Shoba Sivaprasad Wadhia, p.686). In attempts to protect the nation from potential threats, the United States government violate American human rights by segregating one race as a threat. While scholars Afzali and Wadhia concedes that the government uses national security as an excuse for far- reaching policies, Wadhia also considers the welfare of immigrants. Esperance !3 In Mirage of Immigration scholar Marcia Zug, provides insight on how welfare of immigrants can be a priority while helping the country. For instance, Barack Obama is said to have deported more immigrants than any other previous presidents. However, scholar bug states that, high rate of on criminals rather than children and (Zug, p.955). The president protected the welfare of the refuge seeking immigrants while protecting the nation by focusing only on the non-beneficial individuals. The policies today are targeting both undocumented criminals as well as noncriminals. The immigrants seeking refuge and looking for working opportunities for their families are being rounded up and sent back to their country of origin as if done something wrong. Native- born children are sometimes born in families of immigrants and put in foster care once the parents are deported which shows a flaw in the new system. In an attempt to keep all the immigrants from being deported, Barack Obama made an effort to pave the way to citizenship for undocumented immigrants who came when they were children. In the absence of approval, Barack passed DACA, which was way achieve some of the Dream p.956) and protected many children and families. Those who came to the United states as children and has yet to commit any wrongdoings has earned the right to get help from the government. America is a place full of opportunities and hope and that should be what the immigrants experience. Scholar Zug and President Barack both have the right idea in putting the welfare of immigrants before all else and representing them equally. Scholars Johns, Afzali, and Wadhia justify the drastic policies with national protection for the American citizens while neglecting to see how immigrants need protection. American values or more specifically humanitarian values Esperance !4 are the underlying basis of this country and nothing should jeopardize that. America is a civilized country with human rights that protect both citizens and non-citizens. When immigrants or specific ethnic groups are targeted, they no longer fell safe which is why they be disfavored because of their background. The indisputable truth is that segregating refugees will bring in more complications than resolutions. As an accomplished and splendiferous country, America should not be keeping refugees out. Instead, national precautions should be taken while keeping the refugees in the United States and helping them reach citizenship, or success of some sort. Humanitarianism towards refugees of any background is the key to making America more superior. Their contribution to the country could be more beneficial along the way than deportation because of the eminent hard work that could truly help America be great. Esperance !5 Work Cited Afzali, Samira. is the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Bill? S. 744 and its Implications for Muslims, Arabs, South Asians, Somalis and Iranian Journal of Public Law & Policy, Vol. 35, No. 2, pps. 296-329 Johns Brian J. the Void: Incorporating International Human Rights Protections into United States Immigration Rutgers Law Journal, Vol. 43, No. 54, pps. 541-571 Wadhia Shoba S. Immigration Law National Security Emory Law Journal, Vol. 66, No. 669, pps. 670-696 Zug, Marcia. Mirage of Immigration Reform: The Devastating Consequences of Immigration Kansas Law Review, Vol. 63, pps. 953-980