Perez 1 Naheed Perez Professor Aranda ENC Comp 2 April 16, 2017 Realties of Nuclear Energy There are currently 61 power plants in the United States of America and hundreds all around the world. The plants power your television, phone chargers, and even your water heater. What some people do not know is that it adds radiation to our water supply, causes hundreds of people to run away from their homes because of radiation exposure, and its ability to be the most dangerous man made weapon in history. Because of this, there must be a stand to regulate the use of nuclear energy and eventually end it. The people that live in the city of Tampa are able to make the change as well as anyone in their community. Greenpeace is an organization that fights for the peace of people and the regulation of environmental policies and it is helping these local communities, like Tampa. This is an opportunity to join Greenpeace and protest in front of Tampa city hall April 30 th in order to change our cities sources of energy to more renewable ones. The radiation waste from nuclear energy imposes a great threat on the Earth and the people that get exposed around it. In order to understand what the waste that nuclear energy is, the people willing to make the change in their community needs to understand how it is made. Through the process of nuclear fission, scientist and researchers are able to split uranium and plutonium atoms to make energy. Nuclear power plants use water to cool the process so that there is not an overload due to temperature inconsistency. The waste from splitting the atom can Perez 2 be used to make more energy however, the proper resources are not available thus the waste is disposed of in a dangerous manner. There is no way to dispose of the waste because it takes hundreds of years to decompose and become less radioactive. The power plants also makes nuclear power for missiles. This lead to the destruction of many islands such as Hiroshima and Bikini Atoll in the islands of Hawaii. The constant use of bombs and the vast amounts of radiation makes the lands inhabitable. This information is connected to call to action because it gives people a background knowledge of what they are fighting against. They understand why they are taking a stand. Building more nuclear power plants in the world increases the nuclear waste that cannot be ridden of. Before the Nuclear Waste Policy, waste would be dumped in the ocean. Studies then showed the horrible effects that radiation has on the water, its animals, anyone that drinks it. From this they decided to create the policy to regulate the waste and where is can be placed. However, according to the Road to Nowhere: States Confront the Challenges of What Do with the Growing Amounts of Nuclear  written by Scott Hendrik and Clarie Lewis than 68,00 metric tons of spent nuclear fuel have been produced by the nuclear energy the military has generated about 13,000 metric tons of high-level (12). These numbers grow everywhere and with each year there is still no solution to the problem of waste removal. In an article written in 1988, it talks about how waste brokers resulted to selling their waste to Africa for low as $3 a (Brooke). With now regulated policies in Africa where would the waste go? This question still has not been answered and is one of the reasons that nuclear energy should not be supported in Tampa and instead changed to more renewable resources. Perez 3 The making of nuclear energy has resulted in more destruction to the human population than help them. As said earlier before, nuclear energy requires water to cool down the process of splitting the atoms. The plants need to be placed by water so there are usually many communities that surround the plant because of the water source. There have been many situations where the temperatures of the plants were not regulated and has caused a meltdown. The most recent incident happened in Fukushima, Japan. The meltdown happen in March 11, 2011 and it caused people that lived 60-90 miles from the plant to evacuate their homes to escape possible contamination. In a blog written by Ike Teuling, he says people in the 20 km exclusion zone around the Fukushima disaster site have been evacuated, the residents of this densely populated city have already waited nine months for decontamination of their houses, gardens and parks without getting any official government support for (Greenpeace). This incident still haunts the resident of the area because of how long it takes to reduce radiation. There is also another plant closer to home than Japan. Located in Miami Florida, Turkey Point is a nuclear power plant that has been accused of leaking their waste into Biscayne Bay. In a article written last year, the water monitors found more than 200 times the normal levels of tritium, a radioactive isotope linked to nuclear power production, in the bay (Elfrink). This is dangerous because ingestion of vast radiation can lead to higher chances of cancer and uneven levels of iodine in the body. Whether it will be in Florida or in Japan, this contamination affects the well-being of people for the worst. Protesting will be the first step to preventing other incidents from happening in the future. The impact that nuclear energy has on our crops and animals is vast as well. The waste from nuclear energy can contaminate our crops making them unable to eat. This was seen after Fukushima and similar accident that happen in Chernobyl, Russia in the 1980s. The situation in Perez 4 Chernobyl is very much like what happen in Japan however the scale was much bigger evacuating an entire city rather than one section. To this day, the radiation levels are still not in safe parameters preventing people from moving there or using crops from there. Recent studies have shown that remaining persistent problems in the affected areas occur in extensive agricultural systems with soils with a high organic content and animals grazing in unimproved pastures that are not ploughed or fertilized. This particularly affects rural residents in the former Soviet Union who are commonly subsistence farmers with privately owned dairy (IAEA). Workers in the area are not able to sell their produce because of this radiation, and people are not able to eat the food that they grow because the soil is not good for planting. The same problems have been happening in Fukushima as well. It is obvious that nuclear energy does more harm than good. There is a duty that humans have too each other and to the Earth. Using nuclear energy does not fulfill this duty and that is why protesting its use in the Tampa Bay area is one step to the bigger picture of removing nuclear energy. There will be a protest in front of city hall April 30 th protesting nuclear energy use and instead converting to renewable resources. The protest will be hosted by Greenpeace, and organization that has been protesting for the sake of the safety of Earth and other people since the The goal is to show spectators and congressmen that there should be more attention on renewable resources such as solar power and energy created from running water, things that sunny Florida can provide for its habitants. There are many other sources of energy better than nuclear. Solar power avoids the toll against human livelihood and war, something nuclear energy cannot do. Using the currents of the water prevents dangerous consequences on animals and contamination of our resources. Florida gives us these things everyday so it would make the switch easier. Protesting in Tampa for these Perez 5 changes can help shape a future with less risk and heal what damage has an already been done. Join us for the fight that will make a difference for today and for tomorrow. Perez 6 Works Cited Brooke, James. Waste Dumpers Turning to West  The New York Times. The New York Times, 16 July 1988. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Elfrink, Tim. Turkey Point Nuclear Plant Is Pumping Polluted Water Into Biscayne  Miami New Times. N.p., 30 Jan. 2017. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Hendrick, Scott and Claire Lewis. On the Road to Nowhere: States Confront the Challenges of What Do with the Growing Amounts of Nuclear  State Legislatures, no. 5, 2013, p. 12. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.329180511&site=eds-live. Living with Fukushima radiation  Greenpeace USA. Greenpeace, 03 July 2015. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. International Atomic Energy Agency, Vienna (Austria) Kinly, D. III (Ed.). (2005). legacy: Health, environmental and socio-economic impacts and recommendations to the Governments of Belarus, the Russian Federation and Ukraine The Chernobyl Forum (INIS-XA--798). Kinly, D. III (Ed.). International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)