Adam Winton Ms. Tisdale ENC 1101 April 8 th , 2017 The Sport of Gaming Video games have been a huge part of society for about three decades now, from when they were part of an arcade for teens to gather at, to their entrance into nearly every home. Nowadays, video games are bigger than ever, and even some jobs to not only making the games, but also to play these games. Esports have come from humble beginnings to a world- wide phenomenon, and at this point should be considered a sport because of their vast audience, mental prowess, physical performance, and competitive driven atmosphere. Competitive playing of video games, or Esports as many call it, started from a very grassroots beginning. There were no leagues or online communities for video games like there are today, many of the first tournaments were small venues, maybe set up in house, that were formed only by word of mouth, or forum based websites for that specific game. When Esports were first starting off, it was small communities of people who loved the game, and would travel far distances instead of being able to play online. Esports was a tight community with people who loved each other or formed harsh rivalries. A great quote from the Smash Brothers Documentary was When the set was over, Ken said to me you had no chance. the kind of thing that makes a person want to get better. exciting, it gives life a little (Travis Beauchamp). The Smash Brothers Documentary shows the beginnings of the competitive scene of Super Smash Brothers Melee. It shows that there are rivalries, passions, and bonds that we would see in any other sport. In 2011, Twitch.tv was officially launched. This website would help to skyrocket Esports into a new audience and new realm of viewership. Twitch is a free online streaming website that was made to livestream video games, and most Esports tournaments use this as their platform to broadcast their tournaments. Contrary to how the NFL or NBA broadcasts their sports through subscription based services or through cable, which you need to pay for. With Esports, they broadcast off of a free platform, that you can pay to remove ads, but it is not necessary to view the broadcast. In 2016, the League of Legends world championship was streamed on Twitch, for free, and brought in 43 million unique viewers, whereas the NBA finals in 2016 only brought in 1.7 unique viewers. Not only does this show that this  can bring in viewers just like the rest of the pack, but it also shows that it has a strong platform to depend on. Many people would say that video games could never be a sport because all you do is sit in from of a screen, and require skill that football or basketball does, but they are wrong. Fast paced video games are intensely skill based and require very fast thinking. In the game Super Smash Brothers Melee, the average APM, or actions per minute, of a player  was 305, which means he was doing an average of 5.1 actions in the game per second. In a game Starcraft 2, the average APM of player , while in a professional game, was 470 APM, which averages to almost 8 actions per second. These actions are just hitting the spacebar 8 times per second, they are educated decision predicting, and reacting to their opponent. In many other sports, players have to be thinking, or performing this many actions per second, or even have to play to this kind of level of skill. People say that traditional sports require more skill, but they say that again if they actually knew what was being put in during these Esport matches. Many video games, such as Starcraft 2 or League of Legends, require immense mental abilities to succeed in competition. People say that Esports should not be recognized as a sport, even though in 2000, chess was officially recognized by the Olympic committee to be a sport, and many would say that quite a few video games exceed chess in strategy and mental ability. A quote from Mindgames.gg says Starcraft 2 is a game that requires intense concentration, mental focus, for anywhere from six minutes to an hour. Like traditional sports, mistakes and errors are punished heavily in eSport events, often costing points or  Even in speed chess, you can take some time to think about your move without getting punished, but in most video games, it is not on a turn based cycle and your opponent can punish you for slow decision making. Many people would say that video games that Esports are not real  because they require no physical activity. But, by the definition of a sport it just needs to require physical exertion, but to no extent. Esports have the same physical exertion as sports like skeet shooting or NASCAR. Also with the Olympics recognizing chess as a sport, that shows that it need to be sweat dripping from players to constitute a sport. Many former Esports players had to retire from input intensive games because of how much work needs to be done to stay relevant and how playing at such a high level has taken such a toll on their hands, and shows that these micro actions are a physical attribute. As stated before Esports players are doing over 5 actions per second during a match. Esports might not involve running up and down a field, but the small and precise actions that these players have to perform require a lot of skill and training, which shows that it can be a sport. Esports may be just a fun little activity for most, but for some it is a career, a passion, and a competition. Esports should be considered a sport due to vast audience, mental prowess, physical performance, and competitive driven atmosphere. With Esports being on such a rise and with the age of technology, it might not be that people think this is a sport, but rather that they know it is, but are scared to admit it. Beauchamp, Travis, director. The Smash Brothers. East Point Pictures, 2013. Mental Skill in  MindGames, https://mindgames.gg/survivalguide/mental-skills-esport/. Accessed 9 April, 2017 Paladia. Top APM during  Teamliquid, http://www.teamliquid.net/forum/starcraft-2/237582-top10-average-apm-during-dreamhack-list. Accessed 8 April, 2017. RockCrock. APM of Smashers. July Update - The Fastest  SmashBoards, https://smashboards.com/threads/apm-of-smashers-july-update-the-fastest-peach.234508/. Accessed 8 April 2017.