Byrd 1 Meghan Byrd Janie Gill ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Shifting into Solar Nearly everyone in world uses electricity and power in one way or another. Even though energy is a necessity and helps a lot of people, the use of most traditional power sources comes at a cost. Many non-renewable energy sources emit a tremendous amount of pollutants into the environment, such as greenhouse gases and particulate matter. One way to help reduce such harmful pollutants is to use alternative energy sources, such as solar power. With solar power, collecting power can be done with very few pollution sources. Harnessing solar power, or any other form of alternative/renewable energy is one step closer in the fight to help the environment. With the help of organizations such as The Solar Foundation and Greenpeace, people everywhere are able to contribute to the fight to make the world a cleaner, greener environment. Some of the first instances of solar power came to be as early as 1839. This is when scientists discovered the photovoltaic effect, which is how most solar panels create their energy. The effect uses a specific material that, when exposed to solar radiation, creates voltage (Maehlum). Following this discovery, in 1883, the first solar arrays were used on a rooftop to produce energy (Maehlum). This leads the way into modern solar energy production. In 1954 the modern photovoltaic cell was created, which leads into the first bill that was passed in 1974 that declared solar energy as a viable solution to the future energy crisis (Sabas). Continuing on, in 1977, the Solar Energy Research Institution was created to help further efforts in solar Byrd 2 technology in order to help advance solar technology (Sabas). There are now many different grants and credits in place for people to harness solar energy. These serve as incentive for more people to work towards using cleaner energy to try to alleviate some of the damage that has already been done to the ecosystems on earth. Solar energy is among the cleanest sources of renewable energy options (SEIA). There are essentially no sources of pollution that come from the solar panels themselves. The only pollution comes from the transportation of the panels in large trucks. This brings a good outlook for lowering emitted pollution levels, because this is such an important factor in looking for alternative energy sources. If there is not a lowered pollution level, then what is the point of using such sources? Another thing to think about when using alternative energy is how abundant a source of energy is. With traditional energy, such as goal and natural gas, there is a limited amount of it that can be harnessed. This is the reason why they are sources, because once they run out, they cannot continue to be drawn from. The sun is an excellent source of energy since it comes up every day. Also, scientists predict that the sun will not die out for almost another 5 billion years, which gives access to this kind of energy for a very long time (GreenMatch). One goal in gaining access to alternative energy is that it should be able to last for a long period of time, which solar power accomplishes. Another goal for alternative energy should be that it has multiple uses. Solar energy can be used to provide light, heat and distill water, and works at domestic, commercial, and industrial levels of production (SEIA). This means that solar power can be used for a wide variety of people in many different places. One thing that makes solar power a good alternate is that there are two methods of energy creation: active and passive. Active solar production involves using the electric equipment to convert solar radiation into electricity to be used in real time (SEIA). This can be utilized in photovoltaic cells, Byrd 3 solar heating and cooling, and concentrating the solar power. The other method, passive, involves collecting the solar energy and, instead of using it in real time, storing it in large batteries to be used at a later time (SEIA). This energy can be used during the night time, when there is bad weather or it is a cloudier day, or if there are any difficulties with the solar panels themselves. There are many reasons why someone should switch to clean energy, like solar. Some of these reasons might be the fact that it is renewable energy. Solar energy will not run out and can be harnessed and used just about anywhere on the planet (GreenMatch). The energy can be harnessed just about every day of the year. Some might wonder what happens on a cloudy or stormy day. This just means that there will be less energy collected. Solar energy and radiation will still penetrate the clouds and hit the panels, there will just be less of this energy. This should not cause any problems, especially if one uses batteries to store energy. Another reason that solar energy helps the consumer is that solar energy costs less. Not only can it significantly lower monthly bills, but when excess energy is collected it is rewarded with a bonus pay (GreenMatch). The maintenance factor of solar panels is another good aspect of them. It does not take much for the solar panels to be cleaned or repaired. They only have to be cleaned a couple times a year and the parts that need to be replaced only need to be done every 5-10 years (GreenMatch). In order to actually help make a difference, one does not have to use the solar panels themselves. Being able to utilize solar energy is not the only way to go about contributing in the fight for greener energy. Not only can one research on other types of energy to use, or even just cutting down on the traditional energy sources they use, but they can also donate to organizations who help change the way we use energy. One of these organizations is The Solar Foundation. Byrd 4 The Solar Foundation is a nonprofit organization who uses the grants and donations they receive to help with solar development programs and technology advances (The Solar Foundation). There are also organizations, such as Greenpeace who work as a whole to help the environment, in any aspect. Not only does Greenpeace support solar power, but they also support the fight against global warming, saving the rainforests, and a number of other causes to help the world and environment (Greenpeace). Everyone should consider solar power, or any other source of renewable, clean energy, a viable solution to current energy problems. More people need to harness solar power, not only to contribute to a healthy future for themselves, but their children and future generations. The earth will only be around for so long, why not try to stretch the potential of the resources at hand? Byrd 5 Works Cited Advancing Solar Energy  The Solar Foundation. Web. 03 May 2017. Home  Greenpeace USA. Web. 03 May 2017. Maehlum, Mathias Aarre. The History of Solar  Energy Informative. Energy Informative, 14 Aug. 2013. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Pros and Cons of Solar  GreenMatch. Green Match, 28 Mar. 2017. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Sabas, Matthew. History of Solar  IER. 18 Feb. 2016. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Solar  SEIA. SEIA. Web. 20 Apr. 2017.