Yi 1 Thomas Yi Professor Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 5/7/2017 Drinking Age It is clear that the age should remain at twenty-one instead of being lowered to the age of eighteen. The results of the drinking age being twenty-one when compared to eighteen is so astounding that even the college presidents that once thought that the drinking age law was a failure, is now positive that the drinking age should remain at twenty-one. The evidence is publicly known regardless if one does the research or not. Evidence such as drinking at the age of eighteen instead of twenty-one, which caused an increase in reckless driving, is undeniable. Furthermore, young adults at the age of eighteen simply cannot drink responsibly when compared to the young adults at the age of twenty-one. Drinking and driving has been an issue that has been around ever since automobiles were built. One exception to the drinking and driving incidents in U.S. history is the timeline. Automobiles were extremely treasured in the U.S. but very few people were aware of the dangers of drinking and driving simply because automobiles were fairly new at the time. As a result, young adults as well as wealthy individuals would drink to their hearts content at parties and ended up having car accidents on the way back home. As mentioned before, this time period is fairly exceptional due to the fact that automobiles were still fairly new to the American people. In 1999, when New Zealand lowered the drinking age from 20 to eighteen, the country immediately saw the increase in alcohol related accidents. Majority of the accidents happened to individuals aged 16 to 19. As you can clearly tell by the given text, lowering the drinking age Yi 2 from twenty-one or 20 to eighteen is simply not a viable decision. Due to this event in 1999, some college presidents turned their back to lowering the drinking age to eighteen in the U.S. Regardless of the U.S. governments lack of voice on lowering the age, majority of college presidents remained firm with their stance on lowering the age to eighteen. Before 1984, the U.S. did not have one set law for the drinking age. Every state had different drinking ages. states lowered their drinking ages to eighteen, nineteen or twenty during the Vietnam War era, and subsequently reversed them after they saw increases in alcohol-related traffic incidents. Still, some states had lower drinking ages and underage individuals often would cross state lines to drink legally, the report this report, we are able to clearly see that during the year of 1984, though not as a whole, many states reversed their drinking age back to twenty-one. Another important aspect of the drinking age remaining at twenty-one is the obvious personality of majority of young adults at the age of eighteen. John McCardell (former President of Middlebury college in Vermont) writes in 2004, It is astonishing that college students have thus far acquiesced in so egregious an abridgment of the age of majority. This law is an abysmal This is McCardell, a college president back then who founded in 2007, a non- profit group where students and adults alike can become educated in alcohol usage. This groups alcohol education program was made in order to educate the college students on alcohol and the consequences one might face but anyhow, the idea was, if the students are educated at an earlier time on the dangers of alcohol and how to drink responsibly, the amount of caught for DUI and potentially killing other people, will go down. When the stats for DUI or alcohol related accidents amongst underage college students go down, the drinking age will easily be lowered to eighteen. As you may have noticed, there have been many attempts throughout time in order to educate students/adults in alcohol usage in hopes of reducing the Yi 3 alcohol related accidents amongst the groups but the reality is, many students/adults may be educated on what alcohol can do to an irresponsible drinker but not many will care enough until an accident involving them has happened. This is a common scenario amongst eighteen year olds. This is the logic of eighteen year olds because of the fact that majority of them do not fully understand the consequences of their irresponsible actions later on that day/night when they drive or do anything else when they are impaired by alcohol. Of course it goes without saying that a few adults do this as well. One might still argue that it is completely absurd that the drinking age is all the way at twenty-one and fine, but it is absurd if and only if you think about it in just that one point of view. The logic of that certain point of view is as follows; As soon as a U.S. citizen turns eighteen, they have the right to enlist into any five military branches as well as vote for any presidential candidate. Enlisting in the armed forces is a huge commitment at the age of eighteen but not being able to drink at that age as well is agreeably absurd. However, for the general well- being of the public, the drinking age must not be lowered. If anything, it should be higher than twenty-one but for the sake of another possible riot breaking out, it is best to leave the drinking age at twenty-one. Given the evidences shown throughout history, the American people should focus on continuously educating the students and adults alike on the consequences of drinking irresponsibly. The many college presidents such as McCardell should focus on this continuous education rather than focusing on the objective of lowering the drinking age to eighteen. Having little knowledge on a matter is an issue but it is still better than being completely oblivious to the effects of drinking irresponsibly. If college presidents or education enthusiasts such as McCardell gave up on educating the American students/adults on the usage of alcohol, there Yi 4 would undoubtedly be an increase in alcohol related accidents, especially among college students under the age of twenty-one. Simply put, the objective is to not lower the drinking age but to raise awareness on the responsible usage of alcohol for both students and adults alike. Yi 5 Works Cited 1. Bidwell, Allie. Study: The Debate Is Over - Higher Drinking Age Saves  U.S. News & World Report. U.S. News & World Report, 24 Feb. 2014. Web. 07 Apr. 2017. 2. Dickerman, Kenneth. You Must Be 21 to  The New York Times. The New York Times, 09 Feb. 2015. Web. 07 Apr. 2017. 3. Daniloff, Caleb. Drinking: 18 vs. 21 BU Today Boston  BU Today. BOSTON UNIVERSITY, 21 Oct. 2010. Web. 07 Apr. 2017. 4. CBSNews. The Debate On Lowering The Drinking  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 22 Feb. 2009. Web. 07 Apr. 2017.