Lopez 1 Edison Lopez Prof. Emil Smith English Composition 1 04/07/2017 The Potential for Electric Cars to Save the Planet There is no doubt in mind that transportation has revolutionized mankind. Since the dawn of its creation, transportation has helped develop new architectural structures, revolutionized agriculture, and initiated the Anthropocene, the era of anthropogenic influence. Through the use of transportation mankind went from bleak individuality to an astonishing globe of interconnected networking. However, everything comes with a price. Since the very manifestation of the internal combustion engine (ICEVs), mankind has been wreaking havoc on our atmosphere. With every mile car accumulates, detrimental greenhouse gasses infect our skies and trap heat within the confounds of our atmosphere. As this process continues, our planet continues to heat up and mankind perpetuates its inevitable plummet to our own impending doom. Despite many years of this environmental complacency and pollution, the world has finally begun to recognize and show a higher interest in these environmental issues. These careless acts cannot continue. However, transportation is no longer luxury, it is a necessity. Electric cars (EVs) are the sole solution to our environmental problems and should be the replacement for ICEVs. Internal combustion engine vehicles require a powerhouse of fossil fuels to properly function on a daily basis. It is no secret that fossil fuels are not a perpetual source of energy and will eventually run out. Continuing to drive cars that function off of oil and other fossil fuels is Lopez 2 just blatantly unsustainable. According to Statistical Review of World Energy 2015 and The Institute for Energy article, Consumption of fossil fuels continues to oil production growth in 2014 increased by over 2 million barrels per more than double its 10-year (Institute for Energy Research), this proves that mankind has not taken an effective initiative towards ending our reliance on fossil fuels. The fossil fuel demand in the United States has gradually gotten worse and worse, in United States increased its gas demand by almost 3 percent in 2014. Gas production in the United States increased by over 6 double its 10-year average and accounted for almost 80 percent of the increase in global gas (Institute for Energy Research). This just further emphasizes how mankind continues to drastically detriment the issue of fossil fuel consumption. In another article entitled we ever stop using fossil by Thomas Covert, Michael Greenstone, and Christopher R. Knittel, the authors plead the audience to realize that only a change in reliability on fossil fuels, henceforth a switch to EVs, is the only method in which mankind can stop the depletion of fossil fuels by stating robust efforts to correct the market failures around greenhouse gases, relying on supply and/or demand forces to limit greenhouse gas emissions is relying heavily on (Thomas Covert, Michael Greenstone, and Christopher R. Knittel). This quote highlights and invokes the readers to finally take initiative in the fight to stop greenhouse gas emissions. Not only is the continuation of ICEVs unrealistic due to fossil fuel depletion but it is also a terrible decision due to the horrific effects its perpetuation poses on our atmosphere. In an article by JongRoul Woo, Hyunhong Choi, and Joongha Ahn entitled analysis of greenhouse gas emissions for electric vehicles based on electricity generation mix: A global the authors reveal that EVs are a perfect solution for our GHG emission problem as Lopez 3 well as reveal why by stating emissions generated by the transport sector were 22.9% of the total CO2 emissions in the  (IEA, 2015a). As a consequence, there is now a tacit consensus worldwide on the need to change the technological paradigm in the transport sector to improve the air quality and reduce GHG emissions. Given this situation, EVs are considered as the energy efficient solution to the environmental problems associated with the conventional Internal Combustion Engine Vehicles (ICEVs) because the former produce zero tail pipe (JongRoul Woo, Hyunhong Choi, and Joongha Ahn). Throughout the world people continue to drive ICEVs and add to the increasing rate of Carbon emissions in our atmosphere. If one is not striving towards a solution by switching to EVs than one is contributing to the GHG problem. in Europe will help reduce the GHG emissions by compared to (JongRoul Woo, Hyunhong Choi, and Joongha Ahn), this statement makes it blatantly clear that a change to EVs is not only effective but necessary. It is blatantly obvious that the change from ICEVs to EVs would be both environmentally and sustainably beneficial. However, some could argue that this change would be detrimental in terms of market and availability. Mankind has developed our society and economy around the use of these ICEVs and more of these vehicles already exist or are in production than one could count. Trying to eliminate these and then replace them is arguably way too costly and can cause millions to lose their jobs. Despite these valid points, the change to EVs would still be the best solution for our environmental and sustainability problems even in terms of financials. Yes, jobs will be lost in this process. However, several will be created and they will be better and more reliable because are sustainable jobs, not only because they protect the environment but also because the industry disappear in the near (Matt Mattila & Justin Lowell Bellew). Not only will this change boost the economy do to the mass of jobs that would be Lopez 4 created but it would also save everyone a ridiculous amount of money on gas. cost of electricity per mile is much lower than that of gas: A gas-powered vehicle costs on average around 10 cents a mile to operate (with gas at $3 per gallon), while an EV costs only about 2.5 (Matt Mattila & Justin Lowell Bellew), with this statement one can clearly see that a change to EVs would be financially beneficial to consumers as well. Internal combustion engines have serviced us very well throughout the years and have been the one of the main contributors to the technologically advanced society we see before us today. However, ICEVs are detrimental to our environment and absolutely unsustainable. If mankind wants to continue to reap the benefits of our green earth, a change needs to occur and the era of the Internal combustion engine needs to come to a screeching halt. Lopez 5 Works Cited Global Consumption of Fossil Fuels Continues to  IER. IER, 18 June 2015. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Mattila, Matt, and Justin Lowell Bellew. Do EVs Create Jobs and Improve the  Do EVs Create Jobs and Improve the Economy? Rocky Mountain Institute, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Woo, JongRoul, Hyunghong Choi, and Joongha Ahn. Well-to-wheel analysis of greenhouse gas emissions for electric vehicles based on electricity generation mix: A global  Well-to-wheel analysis of greenhouse gas emissions for electric vehicles based on electricity generation mix: A global perspective. Elsevier, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Lopez 6 Covert, Thomas , Michael Greenstone, and Christopher R. Knittel. Will We Ever Stop Using Fossil  Ceepr.mit.edu. MIT, Feb. 2016. Web. Shafiei, Ehsan, Jonathan Leaver, and Brynhildur Davidsdottir. Cost-effectiveness analysis of inducing green vehicles to achieve deep reductions in greenhouse gas emissions in New  Cost-effectiveness analysis of inducing green vehicles to achieve deep reductions in greenhouse gas emissions in New Zealand. Elsevier, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.