Hoag 1 Avery Hoag Andrew De Carion English 2 19 March 2017 Rhetorical Appeal Through Puppy Pictures Many purchase the new family dog from a pet store due to the overwhelmingly lovable ads they see on social media. All About Puppies is local Florida pet store that does just that. They use the breeding method of buying and selling and are known for the variety of purebred puppies that they offer. By buying from breeders, they are able to guarantee the exact breed as well as information as to how each dog was raised as told by dog trainer and author, Victoria Stilwell (Stilwell 1). They strive to keep all of the puppies happy and healthy along with matching every customer with the best breed of dog for them and their family (allaboutpuppies.com). All About Puppies tries to further achieve these goals by using visual rhetoric through advertisements that they post on their website as well as on their social media. They attempt to persuade their audience that buying a puppy from them is a better choice by evoking emotion through photos of their puppies, showing credibility through homemade photos, and giving a sense of timeliness and logic by using a sense of seasons as well as the holidays. Through the picture advertisements from this business, feelings of sympathy, compassion, and guilt are all evoked from the audience. Both of the pictures have a puppy as the focal point which makes the audience automatically feel sympathetic and grabs their attention. In fact, a study published in the journal psychological scientists from Hiroshima University in Japan demonstrated that pictures of baby animals, including puppies and Hoag 2 kittens, can have powerful effects on attention and concentration M., Moriya, H., Nittono, H., Yano, A 1). This technique helps All About Puppies achieve its goals by getting the attention with happiness that puppies bring so that they are able to convince them to buy a puppy. In the first image, there is a puppy on a sled during the winter with presents in the background and the words Be Home For in the upper left hand corner. The message written in the image is meant to bring upon compassion and guilt with the audience by stating that there is still a chance for the puppy to have a permanent home for the upcoming holiday and that they can be the ones to take him home. The whole picture giving off the cheery Christmas mood including the ribbon around the neck, the snow, the sled, and the presents all bring up the usual feelings of giving and thoughtfulness which is another aspect that All About Puppies wants to target. By doing so, they are able to make the audience feel bad that the puppy is still stuck in a pet store as well as making them feel somewhat obligated to give the dog a home for the holidays. Lastly, by having the puppy in a scene instead of giving a realistic view of the puppy in a cage at the pet store makes the audience associate the dog with happiness. In the second image, there is a tiny puppy surrounded with Halloween decorations including a candy corn background, two spiders, and the puppy is placed inside of a pot with the word and spiderwebs on it. As with the first image, the props surrounding the puppy are holiday themed bringing upon the usual feelings of giving and happiness around this time. It also makes the Hoag 3 audience feel compassionate towards the dog in the picture because of how cute and small it is especially when compared to the other elements in the image. Furthermore, these images show credibility by giving the sense that they are and by using seasons and holidays. For both of these pictures, they are outright credible because they come straight from the facebook page which makes it clear to the audience that the puppy is actually there. In the first image, the puppy with a ribbon around its neck gives a cheerful and homelike feel and the puppy looks happy and healthy. This gives the audience feel like All About Puppies is credible in the sense that they keep their puppies happy and healthy. This information will make people thinking about buying a puppy from this company more comfortable in knowing that they will be purchasing a happy and healthy dog. In the second picture, the scene being created by a worker at the store using candy corn fabric in the background and pipe cleaner spiders next to the puppy makes the company seem credible. These elements give the picture a homey and creative look which helps to achieve the look they are going for. This look reassures the audience that All About Puppies actually has and is selling that specific puppy. The puppy also looks overall happy and healthy which gets the people who look at the picture to trust that the business is taking care of their puppies. All About Puppies uses ethos to establish trust with the audience in order to further their objective to sell dogs. Hoag 4 Finally, these advertisements appeal to the logic and timeliness of the audience by using the decorations to correlate with upcoming holidays as well as written words. The first image uses the bold text to appeal to the logical reasoning. The offer from the company to hold the dog until christmas eve attracts the customer to purchase a puppy from this certain place, instead of a shelter for example, because it makes sense for them to choose the convenient option to choose a puppy and be able to come back for them right before christmas. The image also includes a sense of timeliness through the bold text in the top left corner. The text states that if a puppy is specifically purchased for Christmas day, the business will take care of the puppy until 3pm on Christmas eve so that the customer can hide the surprise until then. This gives a sense of urgency to the audience to get a puppy before christmas is over. The second image, however, has a more indirect form of logical appeal. It uses the knowledge that the target audience already has about the puppy being in a shop to aid in this appeal. Since the audience is aware that the puppy does not have a home, they are able to reason with themselves that the puppy would be happier and better off with a permanent home. All About Puppies wants to use this common knowledge to get people to buy a dog from them and give them a home. Also, since the second image has a theme of halloween, it urges the audience to buy the puppy in a timely fashion so that the puppy can be a part of their personal festivities for the holiday. This aspect of surrounding the puppy in halloween decorations also gives off a sense of urgency since the holiday was close to the time the picture was put up, it gives off a feel that the specific dog could go off the market soon. In conclusion, these images create an appeal by using their focal points of puppies to evoke emotion, a feeling of homeliness to express credibility, and the sense of seasons and Hoag 5 holidays to express timeliness as well as reasoning. Through these rhetorical appeals, the first image expresses why their puppies are a better choice for christmas, while the second image attempts to gain compassion from the audience in order to sell their puppies. With both of them, the company is able to persuade the audience that their puppies are the better choice. (word Hoag 6 Works Cited About About Accessed on 15 March 2017. All About Puppies in Largo. October 2016, https://www.facebook.com/allaboutpuppieslargo/photos/a.1309467815743551.1073741 Accessed on 23 February 2017. All About Puppies in Largo. be home for 16 December 2016, https://www.facebook.com/allaboutpuppieslargo/photos/a.442566865766988.10480 Accessed on 23 February 2017. Fukushima, M., Moriya, H., Nittono, H., Yano, A. Power of Puppies: Looking at Cute Images Can Improve For Psychological https://www.psychologicalscience.org/news/minds-business/the-power-of-puppies-lo Accessed on 15 March 2017. Stilwell, Victoria. vs Positively, Accessed on 23 February 2017.