Gilman 1 Abby Gilman Ms. Collins ENC 1102 1 May 2017 Say no to Abuse As time passes, the issue of animal abuse has become more prominent and known in culture and society. Animal cruelty is being televised and talked about at an increased rate and is now demanding the help of local people. Although many people think that animal abuse has no relevance or does not directly affect them, it is now being shown through many different fields that animal abuse not only affects the poor, defenseless animals, but also the population of people and bystanders. Animal abuse is a topic that is constantly evolving and changing with the nature of society and from generation to generation. The definition of animal abuse has continued to vary over time due to this constant change. what constitutes cruelty or abuse is difficult regardless of the (Vinas). However, from a perspective of an animal rights activist, one might define it as, is broadly defined as any act that contributes to the pain or death of an animal or that otherwise threatens the welfare of an (Agnew 179). This, however, does not give a clear and precise definition as to what exactly animal abuse is and what it entails in its entirety. Therefore, it leaves open gaps as to what is accepted to be animal abuse and what is not. This brings many controversies to the table when dealing with crimes involving animal cruelty because it is hard for law enforcement to clearly constitute what exactly abuse is. When dealing with abuse it is important to remember that even the smallest act of violence or harm to the animal can be considered abuse. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), is an organization that contributes its time on fighting for animal rights and assisting in putting a stop to animal abuse. mission statement says, focuses its attention on the four areas in which the largest Gilman 2 numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment (About PETA). These are the four main fields of animal cruelty that get the most media coverage due to being tended to by many large activist groups similar to PETA. Even though these are the four main groups where animal abuse is addressed, it is important to note that abuse can occur in many different forms outside of these sets. One of the most known issues that PETA deals with is their controversy and dispute with SeaWorld, a highly known organization chain of marine mammal parks, oceanariums, animal theme parks, and rehabilitation centers. Although SeaWorld has good intent when it comes to rehabilitating many different types of marine life and providing entertainment to those who visit their parks, the living environment and conditions for these contained animals is very questionable. According to campaign against SeaWorld and their orca whale facility, housed in lonely isolation or with incompatible tankmates, dolphins, whales, and other animals at SeaWorld are regularly drugged to manage stress-induced aggressive behavior and relieve the endless monotony of swimming in (About Campaign). These animals are in tanks that are too small for them and do not provide any assistance to rehabilitating them in order to release them back into their natural habitat. This is just one of the many examples of abuse that goes on in these amusement, entertainment parks. Many people argue that animal abuse does not affect them if they are not the ones doing it or they do not have an animal. However, being a bystander of animal abuse is just as bad as doing the abusing and saying nothing actually puts the animal in even greater danger. Also, as stated before, animal abuse is not just a topic that goes on in local neighborhood homes. Animal cruelty is extremely common in the food industry meaning the food that is bought at the grocery Gilman 3 store may be a product of abuse. For example, companies have pursued lower costs by implementing more intensified animal farming noted that such practices have helped the industry reduce costs, but this approach has led to several questionable animal welfare (Maloni 39). Some examples of animal abuse in the food industry that are mentioned is limited living space with access to sunlight and fresh air, the process of slaughtering the animals and what people are feeding them. Many farmers or corporations that raise these animals feed them genetically modified crops which cause them to grow larger at a faster rate in order to get the food to the table as fast as possible. This not only does extreme damage to the animal but later then affects the people purchasing and eating the food. Therefore, when one thinks animal abuse is not directly linked to them, that is the wrong mentality because in reality, animal cruelty in the food industry affects both the animals and the people eating the food that is processed from that animal. The best solution for animal abuse within the wildlife community that has often been mentioned and promoted by animal activists and scientists are animal sanctuaries. For example, in the book The Animal Ethics Reader, there is a section that discusses Jane work with chimps and the creation of chimpanzee sanctuaries in several different countries. The author speaks about how older chimpanzees are often shot and killed in order to take the baby chimps and put them up for trade. In order to put a stop to this barbaric trade, once the perpetrator has been captured and has faced consequences, we must help these now orphan chimps live and thrive in their environment. this area, we employ individuals from the surrounding villages to care for the chimpanzees (and other animals) and as support (Peavey 148). This is the most appealing and efficient solution to animal abuse occurring in the wild, rather than placing animals in zoos or in the entertainment industry. Similarly, in article against Sea World, Gilman 4 they mention that the best solution for reducing abuse in the entertainment industry is creating sanctuaries, where they can thrive in the enrichment and diversity of the sea while still receiving care, feeding, and veterinary (About Campaign). These sanctuaries are more natural living environments for sea animals. This reduces animal abuse within the entertainment industry because these animals are no longer being contained in too small of environments. If animal abuse is not addressed now, it will only continue to become more frequent and more severe. This issue has already come so far and by not being addressed and dealt with properly, it can be seen through history that it has only gotten worse and will continue to get worse. If the world sits back and does nothing and lets this topic sit in the dark, there will be no animals left to protect. These creatures, big or small, are voiceless so how are they supposed to help themselves? They rely on humans to support them and that includes speaking out against animal abuse and reporting it when it is noticed or thought to be seen. The big question is, what exactly can one do in order to put an end to animal abuse? There are many very simple things that anyone can do when it comes to ending animal cruelty in the world. For example, if animal abuse is ever seen in public or any form of harm is being brought upon an animal, the first thing to do is report it immediately. It may be something small, but when it comes to abuse, it is better to be safe than sorry. Something as small as reporting it can go along way because it is never known if that animal is in even more danger at home. Also, being in support of PETA or the ASPCA, both are organizations that fight for rights and help in putting an end to animal abuse. Donating to these organizations can aid them in being able to create more places to keep animals that are being abused or to run campaigns that can help put an end to abuse in the food industry, scientific research and entertainment. Gilman 5 With all of this information and guidance it is up to the rest of the world to put a stop to animal cruelty. Silence is definitely not an option when it comes to abuse so it is the duty of every civilian to put forth an effort to raise awareness for these voiceless creatures. Speak out and find help for these animals that cannot speak up or fight for themselves. Gilman 6 Works Cited About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. About Campaign Against  SeaWorld of Hurt. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Agnew, R. The Causes of Animal Abuse:: A Social-Psychological  Theoretical Criminology 2.2 (1998): 177-209. Web. Maloni, Michael and Michael Brown. Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain: An Application in the Food Journal of Business Ethics, vol. 68, no. 1, 2006, pp. 35-52. Peavey, Fran. Chimpanzee at The Animal Ethics Reader, edited by Susan Armstrong and Richard Botzler, Routledge, 2003, pp.144-151. Nuria Querol i. Untangling the animal Abuse  Bienvenid@ a GEVHA. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 May 2017.