Mirzakhalov 1 Jamshidbek Mirzakhalov Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 2 May 2017 Slapping the death on the face Medicine has always been about finding the cure, relieving the pain, creating comfort and saving lives. However, many people cannot tolerate it when there is a whole branch of medicine with so-called trained doctors whose only job is to prescribe people lethal injections. As a matter of fact, there exist thousands of private and public clinics performing practices called euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide (PAS). In 28 countries around the world and some states in the United States, these inhumane acts are totally legalized around the Although euthanasia and PAS are effective and reasonable to use in the case of patients with terminal suffering and deep irreversible pain, their legalization will gravely impact the lives of people around us who otherwise may have a chance to recover. The following paragraphs will discuss instances of horrible consequences, explore the dark sides of the euthanasia and PAS market, explain why these cases should be so relevant to each member of our society, and encourage everyone to take steps to make a positive change. When someone decides to end their life through euthanasia or PAS, their circumstances and reasons to die vary greatly, yet most can have a better solution than death. Contrary to the way it has been portrayed in the media, these practices are not used for the terminally suffering anymore. Rather, almost anyone with a wish to die can get euthanasia or PAS. On top of that, patients who decide to die can even choose not to inform their relatives about their decision. This Mirzakhalov 2 autonomous power handed to the patient will result in the situation where doctors are the only ones determining whether to save the suicidal patient or not, because there will no longer be the opinions of the friends and family to prevent them. An oncologist Benoit Beuselinck at a large cancer center in Belgium, the second country to legalize both euthanasia and PAS (Dierickx 85), says there are increasingly more cases when patients with mental illnesses request euthanasia when they do not necessarily need it, and doctors together with the review committee simply accept it for profit. He also mentions that most of these cases go unreported because of the autonomous choice given to the patients (Beuselinck). What is most worrisome is that the laws governing euthanasia give the full autonomy to the mentally ill patients, as well. What people fail to realize is this policy makes it possible for doctors to avoid responsibility for the people they are killing, even though the one who requested it is mentally ill and needs care instead of lethal injection. This side of the issue makes one think about the people who could have been given some hope and care instead of inanely injecting them with what they want without even informing the family members. The issue should definitely be emphasized, and people should be thoroughly informed on the general effect of the policy and fight against its legalization. Furthermore, huge financial incentives coming from an increased number of patients requesting euthanasia or PAS make the issue even more controversial and unethical. While most of the advertisements or doctors that advocate for euthanasia and PAS try to show the part of the business where people are relieved of pain and suffering, they fail to mention a giant financial market behind these practices. Figures released in October 2012 indicate that two thirds of trusts of National Health Service had received incentive payments for meeting  for using the Liverpool Care Pathway where about 130,000 people were euthanized that year (Steve 1), and that such payments totaled million or more (Steve 2). It is this act of putting price tag on Mirzakhalov 3 lives that scares many people and encourages to continue the fight against these practices. Professor Theo Boer who served in the Euthanasia Review Committee between 2005- 2014 says that reviewing more than 4,000 individual cases, he sees a problem in this law policy. To quote his words, problem starts when the society in the form of law politics starts to facilitate this killing of oneself. On the side of the doctor, there is no longer a liberty to really act according to his or her own (Boer). Indeed, while some patients see euthanasia or euthanasia advocates as signs of hope and relief, the other party sees the patients as a client in their blossoming business. As Professor Boer says even doctors are part of this chain-like system, where following conscience means losing a job. If there is one thing everyone should educate themselves on, within this issue, it would be that this financial market is a mess when dealing with human lives. Although every hospital is a type of business, human lives cannot be seen with a price tag on them. No matter how beneficial it is, killing a person is and should be an intrinsically and ethically disturbing action for everyone, and therefore should not be legalized. In most of the cases, there is no improvement in the issue because no one knows how to make a positive impact. In fact, it is very simple. Education is the most important and obvious step we should take. Opening deceived eyes and showing them the reality of euthanasia and PAS will automatically make more people concerned. As a result, with a bigger involvement, we will make our voices heard to the legislators who are capable of delegalizing euthanasia and PAS. Educating people on this topic is not easy without showing they that the problem is actually relevant to their lives. In fact, usually when the topic is discussed in public and its severity is emphasized, most people see themselves as uninvolved and irrelevant. However, there could not be a more relevant person than you. It is a policy that will affect our Mirzakhalov 4 lives and those of our dears. Center for Mental Health Services says that one in ten adolescents in the United States have clinical depression (Pratt and Laura 2), which means you are very likely to have a family member, relative or a close friend who suffers from depression. As stated above a considerable portion of people requesting euthanasia and PAS have depression and mental problems. As much as we all fight against suicide and try to discourage our dears from this activity, we must stop the people who otherwise will advocate for suicide, who will talk about its benefits, who will lead people into what they call and painless No one wants to lose their dears especially when they could have been helped and taken care of. If you do not want to regret later, engage yourself and help to stop the spread of euthanasia and PAS practices. There is no better time than now. The faster you decide to join, the more lives you can have an impact on. Many people are in need of hope and support, and our goal is reach out to them and make their world beautiful again. If you are wondering now about what to do next, it is perfect time to learn more about the issue. Some internationally known organizations such as HOPE, NotDeadYet, AffirmingDignity have released several documentaries on the topic which could prove very useful. Also, one of the best ways to make an impact is sharing what you already know to others: friends, relatives, family members, classmates etc. Once your friends know about and feel concerned, they will also share it with their circle of people. As discussed above, the more people know about it, the more powerful our voice will become. Furthermore, organizations like HOPE, NotDeadYet and AffirmingDignity exist in most of the cities in and outside the US, so odds are you will find your spot there. In the case you do not find one, then it is a perfect time to start one. As a student, start an organization or club on campus and attract people with the same concern and spread the word of hope. Your contribution may seem trivial now, but in fact you are inspiring a movement that Mirzakhalov 5 will touch millions of lives including our friends, families, relatives and classmates. There is no point in waiting, join now to save as many lives as possible. In conclusion, the problems with euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide programs should become relevant to each member of our society since they advocate for the real, ad-driven suicide while hiding behind the mask of suffer relieving. When there are thousands of people getting lethal injections instead of care, love and hope, we should not stand still and wait. As long these inhumane and profit-oriented acts are still legal in some of the counties around the world and several states in the US, there is a reason to fight and make our voices heard. One thing is clear, the more people know about it, the easier it gets to finally eliminate the horrible notions of euthanasia and PAS completely. Mirzakhalov 6 Works Cited Beuselinck, Benoit. Affirming Dignity - All life. All ages. All  ADF International. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Dierickx, Sigrid, et al. Euthanasia in Belgium: Trends in Reported Cases between 2003 and  CMAJ: Canadian Medical Association Journal, vol. 188, no. 16, 11/1/2016, pp. E407-E414. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1503/cmaj.160202. Dierickx, Sigrid, et al. Comparison of the Expression and Granting of Requests for Euthanasia in Belgium in 2007 Vs  JAMA Internal Medicine, vol. 175, no. 10, Oct. 2015, pp. 1703-1706. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1001/jamainternmed.2015.3982. Euthanasia & Physician-Assisted Suicide (PAS) around the World - Euthanasia -  Should euthanasia or physician-assisted suicide be legal? N.p., 20 July 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Pratt, Laura A. and Debra J. Brody. Depression in the U.S. Household Population, 2009-2012 / Laura A. Pratt and Debra J. Brody. 2014. NCHS data brief: no. 172. EBSCOhost, Steve, Doughty. Top chilling claim: The NHS kills off 130,000 elderly patients every  Daily Mail. Associated Newspapers, 26 Oct. 2012. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.