Sorto 1 Elena Sorto Ms. Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 1 May 2017 Eating Organic: It Matters Picture this, in the produce section at the super market. been wanting to improve your health by eating more fruits, vegetables, and meat. While looking around, you notice the price of the organic apples is much more than that of the non-organic apples. You wonder why such a price difference and what benefits organic produce has over non- organic produce. If this has ever happened to you, you are not the only one. The conversation surrounding organic eating and the difference it makes has been a hot and highly researched topic proven to make a difference over and over again. With this peek of interest in organic eating people are more becoming more concerned about their health, research has been done to prove the benefits of organic eating, and how it is better for the environment. Something that has people turning to organic food are health concerns. In conventionally grown food there are added hormones that make the livestock grow faster but also leaves them very unhealthy and pumps them up with chemicals. Just as livestock are given hormones, produce is sprayed with pesticides which has many harmful chemicals in it. One common belief is that organic food is pesticide free, but it actually is not. Organic produce contains lower levels of pesticides than conventional produce. The difference between the two is that organic produce farmers use naturally-derived pesticides rather than synthetic pesticides. Natural pesticides are less toxic and have fewer health risks. Your exposure to harmful chemicals and pesticides will definitely be lowered by eating organic produce but not 100% pesticide free (helpguide.org). Sorto 2 Conventionally grown food has also been shown to lead to certain diseases such as cancer and An article about food and chemical toxicology discusses how a number of cancer cases could have been prevented if half of the U.S. population increased its organic fruit and vegetable consumption by one serving each day (elsevier.com). An article from Food Toxicology says, more fruits and vegetables has a lot of positive, cancer fighting benefits to your body but, also eating fruits and vegetables without out the chemical based pesticides (organic) has an even greater (dx.doi.org). With all of the research that has been done regarding disease prevention it is ludacris to think that it all starts with the kind of food that we put into our bodies. Over recent years more and more research has been done regarding organic eating that has lead to new discoveries surrounding the topic. The central question being tested by researchers is if organically grown food is any different than conventionally grown food and if it even matters. Researchers found that, were benefits for fruit and vegetable consumption for prevention of esophageal, pharynx, lung, and stomach cancer we also found that fruits and vegetables with pesticide residue were found to have negative effects on the body and had ties to (Elsevier.com). Eating organic has a good amount of health benefits. Some of these benefits are antioxidant capacity, pesticide reduction, heart health, immune system, antibiotic resistance, overall health, better taste, environmental safety, and animal welfare. According to multiple studies is has been shown that the antioxidants from organic food have more of an impact than conventional food does to your body. It is believed that this is due to the amount and kind of chemicals that are used on conventional foods and how they interact with the different vitamins, minerals, and organic compounds. Vitamins, minerals, and organic compounds are extremely essential for the positive impact of the fruits and vegetables to help with the Sorto 3 prevention of serious diseases such as cancer and heart disease (organicfacts.net). So in order to get the full benefits of fruits, vegetables, and meats it is important to eat foods that were grown organically. Something that many probably do not think about when they think of organic food is the environment. Organic farming is actually better for the environment. By farming organic farmers reduce pollution, conserve water, reduce soil erosion, increase soil fertility and use less energy. All of these things greatly benefit the environment while also make for a healthier and chemical- free food for the planet. produce contains fewer pesticides, such as fungicides, herbicides, and insecticides, used in most agriculture and the residue that may remain on and in the food that we then put into our Farming without pesticides is also better for birds and animals that are close by as well as the people that live by the farm. These pesticides are sprayed and therefore are dispersed into the air, which moves around, and spread into nearby homes and then breathed in by neighbors (helpguide.org). Even if you are not concerned about what kind of food you are putting into your body it is much better for the environment to eat organic because it then promotes organic farming. While there is a lot research that supports organic eating there is also a lot of research that does not support it. A lot of researchers think it is a or and that everyone is just hopping on the band wagon. Some studies show that there is no difference between food that has been produced organically and non-organically. Eating organic has been a hot topic recently as a lot of people are becoming more and more concerned about their health, but questions are being answered as more research has been done to prove the benefits of eating organic, and studies are even showing its benefits on the environment. Organic produce and meat is becoming readily available to consumers as well which is allowing anyone to test out the product. While it is a bit Sorto 4 more expensive it has proven to have its extreme benefits and is worth the extra cost. Sorto 5 Works Cited Chiodini, A., E., Hoekstra, J,Klaveren, J.V., Kulling, S., Lydeking-Olsen, E., Rowland, I., Schilter, B.,Watzl, B. in press. Application of the BRAFO-tiered approach for assessment to case studies on natural foods. Food. Chem. Toxicol. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.fct.2011.02.010. DeSesso, M. John. Johnston, Jason. Keen, L. Carl. Reiss, Richard. Tucker, Kevin. of cancer risks and benefits associated with a potential increased consumption of fruits and Food and Chemical Toxicology. www.elsevier.com/locate/foodchemtox. 5 September 2012. Organic Food - Benefits, Scientific Research &  Organic Facts. N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Foods: What You Need to Know About Eating Organic Foods: What You Need to Know About Eating Organic: The Benefits and Basics of Organic Food and How to Keep It Affordable, www.helpguide.org/articles/healthy-eating/organic-foods.htm.