Doran 1 Grace Doran Professor Missler ENC 1102 3 May, 2017 Coed Consequences For any college student who has ever lived on campus, it is difficult to deny that dorm life can be rough at times. Not only is occupying a space with a complete stranger challenging, but cleanliness and privacy can easily become issues as well. Having a roommate that refuses to keep their clutter on their side of the room or knock before opening the door is mentally exhausting. Not to mention sharing a bathroom is an undesirable experience whether it is with one person or an entire floor. To make this part of the college experience less tiresome, the majority of colleges and universities in the United States assign roommates of the same sex together within a coed building. Yet there has recently been a substantial number of universities that have begun implementing coed dorm rooms. With coed dorm rooms, students of the opposite sex are permitted to live in the same room and even share a bathroom with one another. According to the of Adolescent Some universities have recently begun taking coed housing to a new stage, offering housing options where men and women can share the same apartment or dorm (Willoughby 24). The main incentive for colleges to make this change is due to the belief that it will, communication and tolerance between the (Willoughby 25). Although this may be true in some cases, what these institutions fail to consider is the negative impact this change will have on college students. Simply having men and women live in the same building on campus has been proven to increase risk taking behavior Doran 2 such as binge drinking and unsafe sex (Macklin 466). Taking this issue a step further by having men and women live in the same room will only be a source of discomfort and potentially danger for students. Upon becoming aware of the implications of coed dorm rooms, students must inform their respective housing committees of their concerns by completing annual housing surveys and contacting housing directly. Through these methods, colleges can work with students to offer safe housing options and resolve potential drawbacks of coed rooms. Discomfort is one of the issues associated with coed dorm rooms. In a poll taken by Rutgers State University in New Jersey, 71% of students living in coed buildings opposed opposite sex roommates, and one of the main reasons for this was hygiene (Moffatt 7). At the time, Rutgers was beginning to implement coed dorm rooms, and the University surveyed residents to observe where students stood on this topic. After discovering that the majority of residents were not interested in coed rooms, the university inquired about the reasons behind these opinions. One of the most prominent reasons that students cited was hygeine (Moffatt 8). At first glance, cleanliness may not appear to be a reasonable explanation for discomfort in coed rooms. Yet scientific studies such as the hygiene hypothesis offer some data supporting why men and women have preconceived notions regarding the neatness of the other sex. The hygiene hypothesis is a hypothesis originally formed in 1989, and it mainly focuses on the reasoning behind susceptibility to diseases and allergies in certain individuals (Clough 486). Yet more recent evidence has connected the hypothesis to differences between men and women in terms of overall hygiene. This part of the hypothesis aims to pinpoint these differences through analysis of, environmental and social factors such as sanitation and hygiene (Clough 491). Understanding these factors is important in the case of coed rooms Doran 3 because it provides greater insight into why some students may have personal judgements about the cleanliness of the opposite sex. The study walked through the various components that may account for the distinct grooming habits of both sexes, and social norms played a large role in the explanation. According to the study, differences and patterns of hygiene is an analysis of the content of the social roles assigned to boys and girls in societies of the industrialized North and (Clough 488). Through this, the study is acknowledging that there are differing patterns of grooming between men and women, and attributes these patterns to social norms. This point contributes to the topic of coed dorm rooms because it provides an underlying reason as to why students may feel uncomfortable living with the opposite sex. Despite the potential discomfort coed rooms could impose, it is important to recognize the positive experiences that some college students have had with the arrangement. At the University of Southern Maine in Gorham, Esmiller and Ashley Franck are a male and female who decided to room together their senior year (Meadows 1). The pair had been dating for many years, and their experience of rooming together was positive overall. During an interview by Weekly, stated best friends. We know each (Meadows 1). This statement aligns with the belief some institutions have that coed rooms will facilitate communication and understanding of the opposite sex. However, at the same university as Hadje and Ashley, freshman Paige Waltz did not have a positive experience with sharing a coed room. As a nineteen year old freshman at the University of Southern Maine, Paige Waltz walked into her new dorm room and immediately noticed the bed across from her had male clothing and sneakers placed on top of it. In that moment, Paige thought to herself, rooming Doran 4 with a guy! This has to be a (Meadows 1). Yet assignment was not a mistake, as the University of Southern Maine offers housing arrangements that offer coed rooms. These housing options are available at other institutions as well. According to the of Adolescent Research, Colorado College, the University of Pennsylvania and the University of California, Riverside-are now allowing students in specially designated dorms to pick their own roommates with no questions asked or to opt for a random assignment with a (Willoughby 25). The assignment that Paige received was random, yet she was not previously aware that the university did not have restrictions on the opposite sex rooming together. This example highlights possibly unwanted implications college students may face with coed rooms that they are not prepared to handle. Aside from discomfort, a serious concern with coed dorm rooms is the danger it can pose on students, especially females. Studies have proven that students living in coed buildings are more likely to binge drink (42%) than students in same sex housing (18%) (Wechsler 922). Students in coed dorms are also more likely to have had a sexual partner in the past year than students in single sex dorms (55.7% vs 36.8%). Additionally, 82% of on campus rapes occur in campus housing, with 90% of victims being female. This makes coed dorm rooms potentially dangerous for women. College age women are already three times more likely than women in general to be victims of sexual violence (DeGue 4). Housing women in the same room as males would only increase this likelihood. Biologically, males have hormones that make them more physically aggressive than females, and this aggression peaks in their early 20s (Wechsler 923). So placing male students in the same room as females at the age where they are most likely to be physically violent is an injudicious decision. Doran 5 It is the responsibility of colleges and universities to make living on campus comfortable and safe for residents. As institutions begin to implement coed dorm rooms into their housing arrangements,all perspectives need to be considered. On the one hand, rooming with the opposite sex allows for greater understanding and communication between men and women. Yet potential discomfort and danger would be unwanted side effects of this arrangement. For college students who do not approve of rooming with the opposite sex, it is important for them to make their voices heard. Rather than facilitating controversial petitions and protesting, students should communicate with their respective housing committees through surveys that are issued on a regular basis and directly contacting housing to voice their concerns. If the situation is approached in this way, college housing departments can gain more insight into the views that college students have on this topic and work to meet the needs of all residents. Doran 6 Works Cited Clough, Sharyn. Gender and the Hygiene  Science & vol. 72, 01 Jan. 2011, pp. 486-493. College Campuses Embrace Coed Dorm  Inquirer (Philadelphia, 2010. DeGue, Sarah. Preventing Sexual Violence on College Campuses: Lessons from Research and Practice  (2014). Macklin, Eleanor D. Cohabitation among Unmarried College Family vol. 21, no. 4, 2007, pp. Meadows, Bob. Freshmen! Get Ready for ... Coed Dorm  no. 8, 2007. Moffatt, Michael. of age in New Jersey: College and American Rutgers University Press, 2013. Wechsler, Henry, et al. Correlates of college student binge  journal of public 85.7 (1995): 921-926. Willoughby, Brian J., et al. The decline of in loco parentis and the shift to coed housing on college  of Adolescent 24.1 (2009): 21-36.