1 Mitchell ENC 1102 Professor Gill 5/2/2017 Climate Change The world we live in is a precious planet that is sensitive to the actions that humans commit. These actions can cause changes in our environment, which you can see today. For instance, the global temperature has been rising quickly since the beginning of the century. NASA states, 10 warmest years in the 136-year record all have occurred since 2000, with the exception of This means that our average climate is changing. Climate change is a problem that we hope to see an end to soon. What is climate change? Climate change is the changing climate of the Earth itself. Even though climate is always changing, we recently have seen a rapid change in climate and environment that many think is linked to humans. Whether that change occurs through pollution or extracting resources, we have recently seen trends that lead to the idea we are primarily the ones causing such a rapid change in the climate. According to NASA: scientists say that humans can change climate too. People drive cars. People heat and cool their houses. People cook food. All those things take energy. One way we get energy is by burning coal, oil, and gas. Burning these things puts gases into the air. The gases cause the air to heat up. This can change the climate of a place. It also can change 2 From the pollution we are producing, you can see a rise in the average temperature on the Earth over the past few decades. This average temperature increase can raise the ocean level by melting glaciers, causing serious problems such as flooding and land erosion. We must switch to an alternative source of energy in order to sustain the human population. This will help reduce the pollution from the fossil fuels we burn and create a less polluted environment as a result. Time is of the essence and we have to act now. We play a vital role in the world we live in and how it operates. Everyone needs to understand what we do to the Earth and how it affects the climate and environment around us. We must care for our Earth now because a time will come in the future where we will not be able to do anything. I assume everyone cares for their families and loved ones around us, so we need to put some things into perspective regarding what the rapid climate change is doing. Imagine if we did nothing to stop the climate from rapidly changing and how our future family generations would be affected. We need to engage a movement so that this does not happen. Climate change is causing the world to heat up, which is causing the sea levels to rise. This can cause land erosion and flooding, which eventually could destroy future human populations, according to Greenpeace. I think that if we could get people in the world to start switching to other alternative, cleaner sources, we would see a promising future for the next generations that will share this precious earth. According to author Lucas Reijnders, who wrote the of Integrative Environmental are unconventional fuels that may serve as near term major replacements for conventional mineral oil and natural gas. These include fuels from oil shale and bitumen, liquid fuels from coal, methane from methane hydrates, 3 biofuels and the secondary fuel Lucas basically explains throughout the passage how we can choose among other sources of energy to power our cars and other machines. We could use particular energy sources for each individual machine and object in order to find the source that is most effective for each machine. For example, if a car works better with a certain source and a factory works better with a different source, we could specialize cleaner sources for both, meaning that can reach their peak effectivity. There are several ideas and energy sources we could apply in order to use energy effectively. We could try things expanding the field of solar energy in order for us to use clean energy. The solar market around the U.S is very weak, especially in Florida. We are known as the but we capitalize on the solar market. According to the Solar Energy Industries association, Sunshine ranks third in the nation for rooftop solar potential, but all the way down at 12th for cumulative solar capacity Without a doubt, ,Florida should be one of the main states to capitalize on clean alternative energy. Other than solar systems in Florida, there are many other forms of alternative energy sources: windmills, dams, and even ocean currents. According to the Union of Concerned Scientists, energy generates electricity from sustainable sources like wind, solar, and geothermal power with little or no pollution or global warming Now that you know, what can you do to help? I think there is a lot that needs to be done in the search for a new energy source, but I also think that with more people backing it, the easier it becomes to help protect future generations and the environment of our world. Many people and scientists believe that we could switch from the fuel sources we use to cleaner, more abundant energy sources. I believe, as well as many others, that our energy use will only change if we start 4 a movement. Every person counts in the effort to do so, because the only way we can change public opinion on alternative energy sources and show the public how significant the issue is. If changing to alternative energy becomes a public concern, politicians will act to on their ideals and create new laws that change the way we use energy. Politicians can also create subsidies and other ways of reducing the cost so that individuals can benefit from using alternative power as well. We also need to start buying alternative energy sources that are available in the industry, so more money can be invested into these markets and these industries can show growth. Once people realize that they have the power to change the industry, many will back the movement to do so. We need your help with climate change! The climate is always changing, but the rate of change has never been this drastic before. We see temperatures slowly creeping up. Once they have risen too much, there will be nothing in our power to stop the heat from rising and destroying glaciers, causing sea levels to rise. According to Greenpeace, main cause of sea level rise today is global warming caused by human activity. This warming drives sea level rise in two main ways: by warming ocean water; as it warms, water expands, and taking up more space by melting land-based ice (glaciers and ice sheets), sending more water to our If we stop now, we will see serious problems from climate change that we will not be able to fix on our own. I believe that if everyone takes action and joins an alternative energy group in their community, like their regional Greenpeace organization, we would see a less threatening future in regards to the climate. The fate is in our hands --- will you create a good future or will you contribute to destroying it? 5 Work Cited Greenpeace  N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Doyle, Julie. Picturing the clima (c) tic: Greenpeace and the representational politics of climate change  as 16.2 (2007): 129-150. Psuty, Norbert P. The Rising Tide: Global Warming and World Sea  no. 3, 1993, p. 172. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed Climate  N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Mar. 2017. Leggett, Jeremy. warming: the Greenpeace Oxford University Press, 1990. Dunbar, Brian. What Is Climate  NASA, 13 May 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Sea levels are rising because of climate  N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Florida  N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Reijnders, Lucas. Fuels for the  of Integrative Environmental vol. 6, no. 4, Dec. 2009, p. 279. Clean  of Concerned N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. climate.nasa.gov/vital-signs/global-temperature/ 6