1 Priyeshwar Sodhi Sabah Uddin ENC 1101.022 May 5, 2017 With the recent European events, like the Brexit (Exit of Britain from the EU), the Greece debt crisis and Italian political upheaval, the new age economists believe it is time for the members of the European Union to reevaluate their economic policies and methods. The economists believe it would be beneficial for these countries to take control of their economies and accelerate their growth by exiting the European Union, which was formed in 1958 as a unique economic and political union among 28 European member countries. The Brexit was responsible for the reemergence of this big debate that had died down a little over the years but has now been brought back to spotlight as one member (UK) has officially left the Union, the first to ever do so in the history of the EU since 1958 when it was formed. With all the sources reviewed, theories read and recent events considered, I believe that it is time for the other member countries of the European Union to exit the Union. The European Union has reached its end. In recent times, the EU has taken many steps to improve economic situations and handle political crisis in different parts of Europe through its system of Soft and Hard Framework Policies that have backfired and been proved to not work when it comes to long term stability. Navarro and Schmitt 3 make a case for the monetary policies of the EU that at times is manipulated to benefit the countries as a short-term goal, but its long-term results have impacted other members negatively, like hikes in membership fees and increased interest rates for trades. The insane number of dues paid by the members range from to a whopping every year, out of which on average the members receive only a mere 5% as rebates and only around 25% in benefits. This has also outraged many high due paying member countries, Germany, France and UK being the top 3 in order, as they end up contributing way more than they receive as benefits, incentives and aids to help in the development and sustainability of their own economies. 2 The new age economists are known for their ability to not only deliver the short-term effects of any economic policy but also trace and predict the long-term effect of the same policy on people it does not even involve. These predictions and detailed studies talk about how the EU has been holding back many of the countries and they are well off without the Union. One such instance is the immigration policy that in cases makes it mandatory for all members to accept immigration from other countries irrespective of whether the member country wants to allow immigration or not. This open immigration policy has forced the governments to alter their tax and migrant policies to provide financial support and jobs for these immigrants. This has costed governments millions of Euros of tax payer money that was allocated for development of the cities. On the contrary, Sabine Saurugger and Fabien Terpan 4 in take a close look at what exactly does the EU do when it faces crises. Fabien focuses on the governance mechanism put in place by the Union to see results in times of crisis. Like during the recession of 2007-2010 the soft governance mechanism was transformed into hard law (more controlled taxes, interest rates, and loan allocations) to help tackle the after effects of the recession. These mechanisms are hard to understand and not easy to identify by the common man. Alain 1 in Crisis and Social Protection in the European Union: Moving beyond Immediate contradicts the claims made by Navarro and Schmitt 3 by providing information about the steps that were taken by the EU to help its members to stabilize their economies from further damage and how it provided billions of Euros to help facilitate the consumer cycle in times of crises like the 2007-2010 recession. Alain explains how the EU cannot always be the only source the countries rely on when it comes to economic development as the main objective is to aid in the overall development of all member countries. Thus, the changes in the policies made by the EU are with in regards to benefit all its members, big or small, evenly. In conclusion, even though 1 and Saurugger and Terpan 4 present very well studied and detailed data, information and case studies to explain their stance, they fail to account the long-term impact of many important policies. One such policy that was implemented back in 2003 and 2008, which resulted in increased interest rates and made it harder for member countries to take control of their own economies without having to 3 report and discuss with the Union, who in many cases can even overrule the own policies. The European Union has failed in recent times to deliver what was expected of it, to support and help the development and growth of the member countries. The long-term impact of the policies is being felt today and visible to the member countries which has only further shaken their confidence in the Union and has spurred the discussions of exit from the Union among the governments. The French elections of 2017 is going to be a very crucial point in the history of the EU and will not only decide the fate of France but will also lead way for multiple more exits of countries from the European Union. The debate is on, conversations are ongoing and discussions being carried out in the cabinets of all the other member countries, leave the EU or But in the end, when it comes to the world of economics and billions of Euros at stake that can be used for further development than being paid for annual dues, what would you do? Take control of the situation or let a Union keep calling all the shots for you, even when not in your favor. The choice is becoming more and more clear. We are about to witness economic history. 4 Bibliography 1. Alain. Crisis and Social Protection in the European Union: Moving beyond Immediate International Social Security Review, vol. 63, no. 2, Apr-Jun2010, pp. 71-86. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/j.1468-246X.2010.01362.x 2. Kagarlitsky, Boris. and the Future of the Globalizations, vol. 14, no. 1, Jan. 2017, pp. 110-117. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/14747731.2016.1228800. 3. Navarro, Vincent, and John Schmitt. Crisis Of The European Union: Weakening Of The EU Social Challenge (05775132) 51.1 (2008): 69-77. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 4. Saurugger, Sabine and Fabien Terpan. Crises Lead to Policy Change? The Multiple Streams Framework and the European Economic Governance Policy Sciences, vol. 49, no. 1, Mar. 2016, pp.35-53. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s11077-015-9239-4.