Nguyen 1 Peter Huy-Xuan Nguyen Bob Botkin Composition II Section 063 26 February 2017 Russian Annexation of Crimea Ukraine has been the major stakeholder in the international crisis regarding annexation of their territory in the Crimean Peninsula. Ever since the collapse of the Soviet Union, Ukraine has been persistent with their efforts to develop their own path towards their nationhood away from their historical ties with Russia. However, the Russian Federation still asserts its influence over the fragile eastern European post-Soviet republic at the center of international dispute between the Western European Bloc and Russia. The first image is the portrayal of Ukrainian nationalism where their neighbor Russia, with President Vladimir Putin still holds Ukraine back. Hence, the rhetorical appeals, that includes: ethos, pathos, logos and logos, involved in the picture fundamentally demonstrates how their previous legacy from the Soviet Union is still holding Ukraine back from full nationhood and integration into modern Europe. The second image portrays Russia as the major bully and aggressor against Ukraine actively threatening Ukraine, where the rhetorical appeals ultimately show the illegitimacy of the globally accepted democratic process as a means for Russia to re-assert its interest over Ukraine. Thus, both the pictures represents animosity and frustration against Russia, who is seen as the major obstacle to Ukrainian independence and survival as a young emerging European integrated nation in the midst of the Crimean crisis. The ethos of both images fundamentally portrays Ukraine as a nation that deserves their own self-determination into the future. However, both pictures demonizes Russia in their role of Nguyen 2 continually asserting influence over the young post-Soviet republic of Ukraine. The first picture of the main subject wearing the Ukrainian flag in solidarity over his shoulders, and the character in the cartoon holding their national flag shows desire for nationhood. The flag hence is a credible national symbol of Ukraine as the major stakeholder in their dispute with Russia. Moreover, the representation of the hammer and sickle, symbolizes the former authority and symbolism of history with Russia under communism in the former Soviet Union. Furthermore, the figure of Russian President Vladimir Putin emerging from the grave in the poster ultimately shows that he is a major credible force who has risen from the old dead grave of the USSR and is responsible for deterring path towards self-determination and integration into Europe. The second picture on the other hand, portrays Russia and Ukraine as the two major stakeholders in the issue over the annexation of Crimea through the representations of their national symbolism in their flags on their clothing. The further representation of the Russian soldier pointing the gun at the Ukrainian figure participating at the referendum demonstrates that Russia is the main political coercive body preventing Ukraine from breaking away from the Russian sphere of influence. Hence, the representation of the referendum was meant to question the credibility of the globally acceptable way of making political decisions with the will of the people, through the representation of the options, trashcan, and the intimidation of the Ukrainian voter, ultimately showing that their vote does not count. Hence, both images represent Ukraine and Russia as the two credible stakeholder in the dispute between the two parties, where the credibility was in favor of Ukraine, and thus, portrayed the image in a way that questioned credibility as a stakeholder. The purpose of both of the images was to promote sympathy towards the Ukrainian stakeholder and portray the Russian stakeholder in a negative light as the pathos of the two Nguyen 3 images. The first image fundamentally portrays the Ukrainian flag in both the subject who was holding the poster and the character in the poster itself, as a means of appealing to the sense of patriotism and nationalism that arose in the height of the crisis between Ukraine and Russia. Moreover, there a contrast exists, with the light side where the Ukrainian cartoon character present in, and the dark side where President hand emerges from the grave of the Soviet Union. This fundamentally appeals to the fear of authoritarianism that existed especially during the times of the Soviet Union, and arouses the Ukrainian and the global desure not return to the era of the Cold War. The second picture fundamentally promote how supposed referendum defies the trust in the electoral system as a means of justifying the supposed will of the people. However, this is contradicting, where the fear of the voters represents that they are forced against their will to vote for something that they do not having a choice in deciding. This hence threatens the sense of personal freedom and right to determine their own future. Hence, this picture represents Russia as the bully intimidating the Ukrainian voters by deterring their personal sense of safety and right to live the way they want and they choose. Thus, both images promotes antagonistic feelings towards the Russian stakeholder in their conflict with Ukraine over the Crimean peninsula, and the subsequent conflict that ensued between the two nations. The logos of both of the pictures fundamentally portrays a consistent theme of Ukraine trying to break away from the former Soviet sphere of influence to dismay. This is portrayed in the first picture through the representation of Russian President Vladimir Putin trying to grab onto the Ukrainian character to stop him from pursuing his own national identity. Moreover, the shadow that loomed over the grave symbolic of the downfall of Communism, demonstrates that despite the collapse of the Soviet Union, previous history with Nguyen 4 Russia still haunts Ukraine. In the second picture, the portrayal of the trashcan and the Russian soldier pointing a gun at the Ukrainian voter fundamentally shows how the democratic referendum process is largely illegitimate. The picture emphasizes that Russia used the supposed democratic process as an attempt to legitimize annexation of Ukraine. However, the picture portrays that no matter what the options are on the Referendum, Crimea inevitably belongs to Russia, where the Ukrainian people ultimately have no say. The Kairos of both images is indicative of the fragile period in Eastern Eruope after the collapse of the Soviet Union for the Ukrainian and Russian stakeholder, which significantly influenced the context of the Crimean crisis. The first picture emphasizes this through the portrayal of the hammer and sickle where despite being on the tombstone, the past legacy of the Soviet Union despite collapsing will always have an impact on Ukraine. Furthermore, the representation of President Vladimir Putin grabbing onto the Ukrainian cartoon characters is indicative of unwillingness to let Ukraine which was once part of the Soviet Union go, and not let Ukraine leave sphere of influence. The referendum in the second picture on the other hand, is represented as the acceptable post-Soviet and democratic way to accomplish anything politically in a peaceful manner in which the decision of the votes will be respected. However, the Russian soldier pointing the gun at the Ukrainian voters undermines the integrity of the validity of this process, demonstrating intimidation of Ukraine to submit to Russian influence, in their attempts to establish a new period of Russian power and prestige especially through reclaiming lost territory in Crimea. Ever since Ukraine has tried to break from the Russian sphere of influence following the collapse of the Soviet Union, the subsequent Russian annexation of the Ukrainian sovereign territory in Crimea has heightened Ukrainian nationalism, which in turn caused greater animosity Nguyen 5 towards their historic neighbor in Russia. This was significantly emphased in the two images through multiple visual rhetorical appeals, which portrayed the struggle of path toward nationhood, whilst simultaneously negatively portraying Russia for intimidating and continuously asserting its influence over the young post-Soviet republic through illegitimate means. Hence, both pictures represents the Ukrainian and the western perception on the crisis that came about following the Russian annexation of Crimea, and how the negative perception of Russia has made their role as a stakeholder in the Crimean issue increasingly illegitimate as the global community ultimately recognizes rights to have their sovereignty as a young nation respected. Nguyen 6 Works Cited Court, Carl. Digital image. propaganda war on Ukraine reaches levels ahead of Crimea vote. Digital image. propaganda war on Ukraine reaches levels ahead of Crimea vote. National Post, 15 Mar. 2014. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. Goble, Paul A. Digital image. Popov demolishes third myth that Crimean people freely expressed their will. Euromaidan Press, 27 Aug. 2017. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. Nguyen 7 Picture 1: Picture 2: