1 Mohammed Al-Shukaili Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 4/12/2017 Ban the Burning Fossil Fuels Fossil fills are the most used power source around the world in the present time, but their over-consumption can create a real threat to both the humanity and the environment. Fossil fuels emissions are nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide, carbon dioxide, and carbon monoxide, which consider as the main source of air pollution. Nobody in this earth denies the fact that nitrogen dioxide, Sulphur dioxide and carbon monoxide are contaminating, and the main source of all these substances is the fossil fuels. Fossil fuels causes many a variety of problems. The number one danger of burning fossil fuel is being one of the common cause of death. However, death is only one of many different risks that the world needs to care about. Some of the dangers from burning fossil fuels are immediate while others happen over a longer period and consequently such as climate change. For all these reasons, the world should find a way to stop the over burning of fossil fuel by replacing it with another clean and renewable source of energy. I believe young individual are the group that can solve this problem, and they are responsible to find a way so the world survives from the danger of fossil fuel. They have the obligation since they are more aware of their activities towards nature than anyone else and they are more educated. Youth should be aware that consuming fossil fuel and using it as a main source of energy makes it a real threat to the nature. As states in we Still Need Nuclear Ernest, amount of dangerous chemicals such as carbon dioxide, heavy metals and nitrogen oxides 2 will be released after burning fossil fuels for obtaining 22). At the point the material are radiated to the climate, they create a real danger to the environment since they prompt numerous issues such as acid rain. Acid rain is extremely dangerous because it impacts directly on human health destroy forest, streams, structures and any natural thing on the planet. The air contamination, that produced by using fossil fuels, contribute in the expansion of global warming issues. Climate change is an important phenomenon that the world has been challenging this time. It is considered as a direct threat to the conserved mission, Communities and economies. As states by Frank, a nuclear researchers who has many innovations in the nuclear field in his article Big Plans For Small Nuclear he states warming will result in more frequent hot days and fewer cool days, with the greatest war ming occurring over land. Longer, more intense heat waves will become more common. Storms, floods, and droughts will generally be more severe as precipitation patterns ( Frank 31). These impacts of burning fossil fuel lead to damage and destroy our planet, not only that, but it also affect the human as well. Moreover, increasing world temperature will lead to sink many of neutral islands around the world and destroy their habitats. Consequently, with a specific end goal to decrease the danger from this risky phenomenon, the world ought to diminish the discharge of gases into the environment and that by quit burning fossil energizes. Younger generation ought to be worried with this issue and attempt to decrease it, in light of the fact that it make them lose their lives. According to the article Nuclear Power but Make it by Narendra pollution is a major environment related health threat to children and a risk factor for both acute and chronic respiratory disease. The most common respiratory illnesses and infections include allergies and asthma, as well as more serious problems, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and lung (Narendra 42). These issues are 3 truly risky and will make youth care and focus about their lives and prepared to contribute and roll out an improvement. In addition, young people should be aware of the risk from utilizing fossil powers because the outflow gasses make damage of numerous creatures in the world. As states in the article, Problem with Fossil by Pye oil can harm living things because its chemical constituents are (Pey 3). Oil can likewise cover some little types of fish or spineless creatures and coat plumes, decreasing capacity to keep up their body temperatures control. In this manner, when younger generation know all these dangers they should promptly begin to help the planet to be spared and free from all different source of pollution. In the wake of understand the danger and the results from using fossil fuel, what can young people do in order to contribute in solving these issues? In fact, many solution youthful can accomplish. First, in their home they should utilize vitality proficient lights; and switch off lights, PCs, and electronic apparatuses when not being used. Educate the people on the benefits of recycling, conserving energy, and eco-friendly transportation options. Appeal to their concerns as parents, older siblings, or aunts/uncles. If they consider themselves environmentalists, ask them to take these measures so that the children in their lives will have a decent future. Furthermore, they ought to drive their own autos and begin utilizing general transportation, biking and walking if possible. This will not only reduce the emission of fossil fuel, but it also will help maintain their health and keep them fit, Also, they ought to be mindful so as not to spill fuel when filling their auto up. At long last, they ought to reduce the measure of bundling that they buy and the measure of family waste they create because the procedure of assembling bundling discharges unsafe emanations into the environment. Also, go and try to 4 search online for organizations urging corporations to divest (remove their money) from pipelines and other fossil-fuel projects. These little things can decrease the air contamination, which protect the earth from fossil damages. Some young people say that the world cannot stop using fossil fuels even it has dangerous impacts. They think this way for many reasons such as, fossil fuels are cheap and it is easy to use. switching to other sources requires an up-front investment, while we already have all the stuff we need to handle fossil In addition, Based on the Quora website, want to pay the additional costs for an electric vehicle, or the costs associated with creating universal charging solutions for those who have secure off-road (Quora front page) Furthermore, some people say that the world cannot quit fossil fuels because currently the only means in which they can reliably meet the high demand for power right now. In conclusion, Fossil fuels emissions are nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide, carbon dioxide, and carbon monoxide consider a main source of air pollution. These materials can destroy the living beings on the earth. For these reasons, the world must stop using these materials and find other sources that are friendly to the environment. In this manner, the world government must quit blazing these materials and discover clean and renewable sources. It is young duty to change since they have the full capacity to do as such. If they show no awareness, then many human, animals and plants going to die. 5 Work Cited Moniz, Ernest. Why we still need nuclear power: making clean energy safe and  Foreign Affairs (2011): 83-94. Web. 4 Apr 2017 Frank . A Big Plans For Small Nuclear  Small nuclear power reactors - World Nuclear Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Bhandari, Narendra. Nuclear but Make it Vikalpa: The Journal for Decision Makers;Apr-Jun2011, Vol. 36 Issue 2, p101. Web. 14 April 2017 Bartos, Frank. plans for Small Nuclear Plant Engineering. Vol. 68 Issue 4. ( 2014):p 64. Control Engineers. USF library. 14 April , 2017. Quora. we quit fossil Web. 17 April, 2017.