Mourra 1 Saskia Mourra Ms. Gill ENC 1102 077 16 April 2017 Protect Your Baby You, as a parent, know what is best for your baby. You know about the importance of car seats, baby proofing, and other ways to keeping them safe, but did you know that one of the best ways of protecting your baby is by making sure they have all their vaccinations? As a matter of fact, vaccinations are the only effective way to protect your baby from multiple diseases spread around the world and can save your life. Vaccines.gov states because of advances in medical science, your child can be protected against more diseases than ever They also state the fact that some diseases that killed thousands of children in the past, have been eliminated completely while others are on the verge of being eliminated as well due to effective vaccines. According to a study at the Pediatric Academic Society, child vaccinations have prevented about 10.5 million cases of infectious disease and have saved about 33,000 lives per year since they were implemented. In order for these numbers to continue increase and more lived to be saved, you must vaccinate your baby as soon as possible before it is too late. Imelda Celine Hanson, M.D., of Texas Hospital states that children under the age of one exposed to measles, mumps, and other vaccine-preventable diseases before being vaccinated are less likely to survive the disease (Hanson). Vaccinations are very important because they provide protection not only for vaccinated individuals, but also for those who are unable to be vaccinated due to multiple reasons such as cancer, pregnancy, Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and newborns. Karen Ernst, the director of the organization of Mourra 2 Voices for Vaccines, says needs to be seen as a shared community value. Communities value litter-free neighborhoods and do not shy away from promoting this value. Communities also need to come together to say that vaccinating children is important. Parents should be proud that they have protected their children against preventable disease and should let others know that they are doing their part to keep outbreaks out of their The Voice for Vaccines wants to prevent the spread of diseases by informing parents about the safety, importance, and benefits of vaccinations. This organization is a parent-led organization supported by scientists, healthcare professionals, and public health officials. Voices for Vaccines wants to give parents who vaccinate a chance to speak up about their choice since the majority of voices speaking on the behalf of parents who vaccinate, are those who oppose vaccinations (Voices for Vaccines). VICNetwork states the fact that the success of vaccines has resulted in a misguided belief that vaccinations are unnecessary because that these diseases no longer exist (VICNetwork). As a result of vacations, we do not hear about the disease called Polio. Polio still exists in many countries, but since the majority of people in the United States of America are vaccinated, there are no Polio outbreaks. Skipping out on a vaccine not only puts your child at risk, but also the kids and adults around them, including yourself. Vaccines must be administered on a timely basis in order to protect your baby as early as possible, since they are most vulnerable at such as young age. Approximately 95% of American parents keep up with a schedule of vaccinations (Rivas). Vaccinate Your Baby is an campaign that targets families with messages about the importance of timely vaccination of and guarantees to make the right choices for their families and others. Vaccinate Your Baby mentions that vaccinations are recommended for very young children. Their immune systems are not yet fully mature which makes it easier Mourra 3 for viruses and bacteria to multiply (Vaccinate Your Baby). Whooping cough, influenza (flu), chickenpox, and many other vaccine-preventable diseases can range from minor to life- threatening where there is no way to know beforehand whether your symptoms are mild or severe. Measles is known to be one of the most contagious diseases and spreads quickly among those who are not vaccinated, meaning one case can cause concern throughout a whole community. Herd immunity is a form of immunity that occurs when the vaccination of a significant portion of a population provides a measure of protection for those who are not vaccinated (VaccinesToday). In other words, the more people who are vaccinated compared to not vaccinated, the less likely anyone will catch the disease and the more protection the whole community gets. When people do not get vaccinated, herd immunity fails and there can be disease outbreaks. This makes everyone more likely to catch the disease and can be very dangerous for people who have weak immune systems and cannot be vaccinated. The risk of your baby catching a disease is reduced to 0% when vaccinated, but when your baby is not vaccinated, there is a great risk of your baby catching the disease in the situation of a disease outbreak. These preventable diseases are extremely dangerous and painful. Amy Parker, who was not vaccinated as a child, wrote in an article for Slate that seen people who have experienced complications from preventable childhood illnesses than I have ever met with complications from These complications vary between deafness from measles and death from meningitis. Parker wrote that, never had these illnesses, you know how awful they are. I do. Pain, discomfort, the inability to breathe or to eat, or to swallow, fever and nightmares, itching all over your body so much that you stand lying on bedsheets, losing so much weight you walk Parker continues to list examples of the pain Mourra 4 and discomfort that comes along with catching a disease. What these diseases have in common is that they are serious and proven preventable. Vaccinations are a huge part of the future for this generation and many more to come. If you do not vaccinate your baby, along with yourself and family, there could be an outbreak at any given point in time. The best way to protect your baby is to vaccinate them and to do so, you can call your local doctor and schedule an appointment. To learn more about vaccinations, you can visit the websites of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (cdc.gov), Every Child by Two (ecbt.org), and vaccines.gov. To be more involved regarding vaccinations, you can join organizations such as Voices for Vaccines, Vaccinate Your Baby, Every Child by Two (ecbt.org), and many more. The ability to vaccinate children is one of the greatest medical breakthroughs to be achieved by mankind. They have the ability to save your baby along with tens of thousands of lives each year while making the world a safer place. Vaccinations are important for not only your baby, but also for the whole society and world. The effect of vaccinations is not limited to just one country, due to people traveling more often, they are exposed to various diseases and can easily cause an outbreak in other countries such as their own. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, as a result of vaccinations, measles is not very common in the United States of America (CDC). However, measles is still common in other parts of the world and can easily be brought into the United States by unvaccinated travelers who are infected while abroad. With vaccinations, if enough people in a community are vaccinated, a disease will not be able to spread from person to person and will eventually die out. Learning more about vaccinations, joining an organization, and getting vaccinated are just some ways to protect your baby and other babies around the world, but these methods are the most effective and successful. Mourra 5 Work Cited Call to  VICNetwork. N.p., 2010-2015. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Five Important Reasons to Vaccinate Your  Vaccines.gov. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 11 Oct. 2006. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Parents Who  Voices For Vaccines. N.p., 2015. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Parker, Amy. Growing Up  Slate. Slate Magazine, 06 Jan. 2014. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Rivas, Anthony. Vaccines For Children: How Do We Convince Anti-Vaxxers Immunizing Their Kids Is  Medical Daily. IBT Media Inc., 18 Jan. 2015. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Vaccinate Your  Vaccinate Your Baby. Every Child by Two (ECBT), 2015. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. What Is Herd  VaccinesToday. N.p., 07 Feb. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. What Are the Reasons to Vaccinate My  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 15 Aug. 2016. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. ZincSaucier, Reno NV. Vaccination  Teen Ink. Emerson Media, n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017.