Chiluisa 1 Gerson Chiluisa Professor Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102-075 19 March 2017 Gun Sense Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense advocates to a wide spectrum of people ranging from moms to families to everyday Americans for stronger gun laws. On the homepage, Moms Demand Action immediately catches the eye, going into detail of recent gun control changes such as the concealed carry reciprocity that congress introduced which would force states to allow people from other states to carry hidden loaded guns. From there they also provide ads like the ones pictured relying on rhetorical appeals like pathos and logos to leave the audience unsettled and shocked at what leisure hobbies are banned in place of violent guns. Moms Demand Action use the innocence in children and their hobbies to expose public environment without gun sense. Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense is relatively new, starting up in December 15, 2012 (Moms Demand Action). Shannon Watts, a stay at home mom, took a proactive approach under Chiluisa 2 her passive lifestyle founding the organization in reaction to the Sandy Hook shooting that took place just the day prior. Moms Demand Action has become notable in its startup, having chapters in each state in the nation. Its mission is to conceptualize living in a country where all children and families are safe from gun violence (Moms Demand Action). In addition, this organization finds it can get its way demanding action from legislators, state and federal; companies; and educational institutions to establish common-sense gun reforms (Moms Demand Action). In all fairness Moms Demand Action supports the 2 nd amendment but only until the fine line of gun violence is crossed; the public health crisis Moms Demand Action want to leave its audience is, American children or teens are shot and killed every (Moms Demand Action). Evoking fear Moms Demand Action touches a very vulnerable side in everyone, always touching on the gun violence in say urban Chicago, suburban Virginia or rural Texas. Anyone can be affect by this very really problem in our society and Moms Demand Action seek to educating, motivating and mobilizing supporters to take action to reform laws and possibly save all 7 lives young lives lost each day. Now audience-centered communication is routine straight out of a public speaking course in college. But analyzing an audience to determine the content, language usage and listeners expectations is a skill that helps convey clear cut messages to a listener (study). So working backwards knowing this information, Moms Demand Actions first picture tailors to first the younger viewers. Seems like a given, not reading the text at all because in the smack middle of the picture there are two boys, around the age of 10 and they look like their face is full of guilt. No one else but them are standing in dismay in a gymnasium and by the looks of it is a dodgeball game that should have been enjoyed with dodgeballs scattered all around the floor. But with the language in the text appearing above and below the boys apparent moms exclusively and Chiluisa 3 other guardians of children are the intended audience not only because of the organizations name but because who else would take action to go to pta meetings where you can openly discuss the banning of a violent game like dodgeball. Also in terms of the gender of the intended audience, focus comes to males who would view the two boys of varying races as a younger version of themselves. When it comes to the second image, you can say they try to captivate two different generations of men. One of the males appears to be a teen who just wants to skate which appeals to the raunchy skaters in the world while the other to his right an older gentlemen who looks retired but awfully battle ready. Because of the loaded rifle hanging by a strap on his arm appeals to a wide, range demographic of war veteran all the way down to a regular person who is a gun freak, in an aisle of groceries. I figure the audience can be at any socioeconomic level because grocery stores usually have a range of customers even in our world of online grocery shopping, food stamps still exist and the middle class and even upper still need to buy groceries. When it comes down to it females will be magnetized to his picture because it is fixated in a grocery store although somewhat sexist true when you realize, two-thirds of women still handle most of the grocery (progressive grocer). In addition, both pictures exude a patriarchal vibe with the scenario containing stereotypical activities that make up what males do hinting at heterosexuality peoples as a target as well. On the category of pathos, focus is on feeling and just like art, it beckons the question of, how does it make you feel? The first image you start asking yourself why the little boys are sad. Acknowledging the saying loves you automatically feel concern looking at the frowned mouths and the eyes piercing at the viewer. Also primed with this picture is the feeling of being uncomfortable, just look at how the kid in holding the gun as if he is a hired gun man. To top it all off the viewer can be left with confusion as to why a kid holding a dodgeball Chiluisa 4 is seen more violent than one with an assault weapon in the eyes of what seems to be school administration or school board as they control the ins and outs of school. Through pathos, it is easy to paint logos, as they are cause and effect. Logos is way of persuading an audience by (your dictionary). So the feelings of concern and shock that develop from the first image are elevated for the fact the two children represent a symbol of innocence. In turn, this sways an audience immediately when a child representing an aura of purity innocently holds a dodgeball right next to another kid who looks the same age but holds a military grade assault rifle and seems to have a different agenda. Strolling to the second picture, expressing pathos was the shock created as to why a skateboard is banned instead of a gun and logos because it is expressed thanks to the caption at the bottom reading Shoppers: Kroger prohibits skateboarding inside its stores because unsafe. So why would they allow this loaded This begs the questions how can something students use to get around every day be banned in a grocer rather than an assault rifle? To exemplify pathos I am concerned for the wellbeing of myself and my fellow man because of the logos of the photo, that at any time, anyone of these shoppers at the store can in act any one of these shopping sprees that seem to become prevalent and well documented now days. On to another point, ethos is known to envigor credibility. In addition, just how the first image establishes credibility is that something like a school shooting such as sandy hook did in fact happen so it makes me believe that it can and would happen again. For the second image believable skateboards not being allowed in certain areas because as a fellow skateboarder its seems the world is filled with no skateboarding signs all across campus, many parking lots and public places like malls. Moving along, guns seem to be allowed in the places where many people are strumming along. Being in Florida it is no secret it is an open carry state. Open carry Chiluisa 5 is illegal while in a public area but you can find a loophole while hunting, fishing, camping, gun shows or going to and from these places. Carrying on to logos, that is the ways appeal to logic and reason. Therefore, to start off both images make particularly safe zones i.e. a school or grocery store seems unsafe because of the facts that guns are allowed at these very public places. It is suprising the focus on safety looks out for everything but one of the main killers in America where, 2013, there were 33,636 Americans killed by (cbs news). This fact creates anxiety about the future as well, because what unnecessary object will be banned before guns will. Lastly, Kairos is another rhetorical appeal that pushes urgency. The first image makes for a just appearance at a pta meeting because in life children are conditioned by learned behavior. Their young minds do not know any better so what they learn, like for it to be ok to hold a gun can be unlearned through the same process. For both of the images urgency can be provoked because of the sequence of text in their ads. First both images ask you to which person is not, either not welcome at Kroger or which is holding something banned in America. Then swiftly the caption DEMAND can be seen symbol at the bottom right of the ad. The timeliness created is profound due to the use of the verb which infers a timely fashion. With all the Rhetoric appeals easy to miss some common errors in reasoning that undermine the logic of the visuals analyzed, these are called logical fallacies. (Owl English Perdue). It is clear in the first image of the use of slippery slope, which a conclusion based on the premise that if A happens, then eventually through a series of small steps, through B, C,..., X, Y, Z will happen, too, basically equating A and Z. So, if we want Z to occur, A must not be allowed to occur (Owl English Purdue). The caption at the bottom reads, ban the Chiluisa 6 game Dodgeball because viewed as too violent. Why not assault It is a clear logical fallacy because dodgeball and gun control should not be compared as if it is in the same category of importance. Another fallacy includes moral equivalence, which is comparing minor misdeeds with major atrocities. Both the images compare gun violence, which is a serious issue according to Moms Demand Action to something minute as either skateboarding or a game of dodgeball. Incorporating both pictures in this faction brings in the demand for change in gun control. These pictures work to address the need for more followers in their relatively new movement. They also send a message to other companies with weak gun control and create a strong standpoint for Moms Demand Action. Fearless to attack others not aligned with their movement Moms Demand Action follows suit using the pure child or their hobby to highlight gun sense flaws. In conclusion, Moms Demand Action maintains its demand for action from political figures like legislators and state and federal companies to establish common-sense gun reforms. They stand for the many killed by preventable gun related deaths like what happens in urban Chicago and rural Texas to name a few (Moms Demand Action). Whether it is highlighting recent gun reforms or actively participating in their marches Moms Demand Action uses the innocence of Children to shine light to entities not actively participating in mind full gun sense. Chiluisa 7 Works Cited Death by Gun: Top 20 States with Highest  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 15 June 2016. Web. 19 Mar. 2017. Examples of Ethos, Logos, and  YourDictionary. Disqus, 21 June 2016. Web. 19 Mar. 2017. NRA-ILA. Florida Gun  NRA-ILA. NRA, n.d. Web. 19 Mar. 2017.