Guseinova 1 Vafa Guseinova ENC 1102 Andrew DeCarion 19 March 2017 Privacy is one of the top priorities in life. Privacy is an area of life of the individuals that is outside of control of the state and society. Every individual in the US have rights to live without any control of the government. This is the most generally accepted, natural, and inalienable human right, the essence of which is that no one shall arbitrarily spy on his or her life. The right to privacy implies the possibility to live according to own wishes that should not provide the conflict with public interests, rules of law, and morals. In addition, to the rights to live; all people deserve rights to human dignity, liberty, and security of person (Chen 5). The Stand Against Spying (SAS) is a coalition of organizations that supports freedom and democracy of the US citizens. Their goal is to create a privacy for all people of the US. The SAS is fighting against mass surveillance with the National Security Agency (NSA). The SAS maintains that spying of millions the US people. According to SAS, that sweeps up the communications of millions of people violates the US Constitution and international (SAS.org.). Collecting records of communications through phone call, messages, or Internet paints an intimate portrait of lives. This organization maintains that mass surveillance is contrary to freedom and democracy, which must be stopped nowadays. The SAS uses images that represent action to stop spying and evoke the sense freedom without governmental control. So, the images use their provocative color depictions to persuade the viewer emotionally, while also presenting a compelling logical argument. The viewers will find these images to accomplish these things in a manner that upholds this reputation. Guseinova 2 The purpose of each image of the SAS is to give the privacy to all Americans and to encourage the NSA to stop spying on people (Glaser 3). Based off these images the audience can understand that the spying is cutting off the citizens privacy and independency. The SAS believes in democracy and freedom thrive, when Constitutional values and human rights are upheld. The images are trying to accomplish that all people, regardless of nationality, believes, have basic rights to have the privacy and the freedom of association. These images call people to understand, that if you live in democratically state, nobody dares to spy on you. In both images, there is ethos, in order to convey to the audience, that the image is qualified enough to speak or to write publicly about spying. He or she must announce or make known the relevant educational or research based background they possess, as well as any other pertinent information. So, in the first image, the first and noticeable thing that gets into the eyes is a bright blue color background. According to Sandrine and Bigot, blue color on the background of the image is symbolizing trust, loyalty, wisdom, confidence, intelligence, faith, and truth (Sandrine & Bigot 4). Also, blue is a color that is linked with confidence. Therefore, it means, that the US citizens can absolutely trust and rely on the work. Also, from the first image, we can see so many eyes. These eyes represent the spying. Based off these eyes, the audience can understand that the NSA is everywhere, in live. People do not have freedom from country, because everywhere the US is watching and listening after them. In the middle of the first image, there is a big eye. Instead of pupil, the audience can see hand. This eye is symbolizing the end of spying action of the US citizens and calling for the freedom. In the second image, there is ethos as well. In the second image, there is a big green airship. According to Airship.Net, Airship is the symbol of a brighter tomorrow and freedom. This image makes the US citizens believe, that one day they will get an absolute privacy and freedom from Guseinova 3 the NSA. The airship is green colored, which is a symbol of harmony and peace; this color has a strong emotional correspondence with safety. So, the SAS is very peaceful organization that represents democracy and privacy for the US citizens. On the airship, we also see the NSA abbreviation. Abbreviation means, that the SAS wants to prohibit the actions. illegal spying below on the airship say that the NSA should stop working from undermining international encryption technologies and standards, and hacking into technology companies, and, of course, stop spying on live. Also, from the second image, we can see, that the airship covered by two rainbows. Rainbow is a symbol of the freedom of speech and equality of all humans; no matter who they are, which gender they have, which color they are and what their believes are. Exactly, these are the perspectives, for these values the SAS is fighting against the NSA. The pathos approach to argumentation surrounds the more emotional aspects of the issue; such as heavily controversial matters, as well as ones that audience members may feel most passionate about. Both images have pathos. The first image makes the audience be in trust with the SAS. We see on the first image big eye with stop hand action. The SAS is promoting idea, that spying is not good and should be stopped, because people are living in democracy society. This image gives very strong and powerful emotions, because this image is simple and understandable for everybody. The second image makes the audience think and understand, that the NSA is doing illegal work. Also, the NSA does not respect the US citizens, because they are spying on every single person in the US. Spying is bad for the US citizens, and this issue should be ended. because there is democracy in the US, and the top priorities of this country are freedom and equality. By looking these image, the audience can get the hope that one day Guseinova 4 everything will be different in a good way, because these image are simple to understand for everybody. Also, these image have positive and colorful emotional effects which gave hope. In conclusion, the SAS maintains their goals and missions through the use of rhetorical appeals in two images, which represent to audience visual argument. The elements of pathos and ethos are used in the two images shown above to inform their audiences, that the SAS is fighting against spying, fighting for freedom and privacy for all the US citizens. These images represent the US perspectives, and these images are powerful and explore their audience to hear their message and goals. Image 1 Guseinova 5 Image 2 Guseinova 6 Works Cited Airships.Net. N.p., Web. 27 Feb. 2017 Chen, Rui. Living A Private Life In Public Social Networks: An Exploration Of Member  Decision Support Systems 55.(2013): 661-668. ScienceDirect. Web. 28 Feb. 2017 Gil, Sandrine and Ludovic Le Bigot. Seeing Life through Positive-Tinted Glasses: Meaning  Plos ONE, vol. 9, no. 8, Aug. 2014, pp. 1-13. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0104291. Glaser, April. One Way to Stand Against Spying: Meet With A  Electronic Frontier Foundation. N.p., 21 May 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 SAS: Where Do Your Representatives Stand on Illegal  StandAgainstSpying.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.