Agudelo 1 Maria Agudelo Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 February 26, 2017 Death with Dignity National Center The legalization of euthanasia has been a controversial topic for the past couple of years, due to the ethical and moral dilemmas that accompany it. Euthanasia, also known as is defined as act or practice of killing or permitting the death of hopelessly sick or injured individuals in a relatively painless way for reasons of (Merriam-Webster Dictionary). Currently, it is considered a criminal offense in all but six states; however, this does not stop organizations such as the Death with Dignity National Center to advocate for it. The Death with Dignity National Center is a nonprofit organization that fights to expand the freedom of all qualified terminally ill Americans to make their own end-of-life decisions, including how they die. As well as promote Death with Dignity laws around the United States based on the groundbreaking Oregon model, and bring a unique brand of advocacy and political strategy to end-of-life care policy reform Us: Death with Dignity National Ever since the Death with Dignity National Center was funded in 2004, it has managed to pass the Death with Dignity laws in states such as California, Colorado, Oregon, Vermont, and Washington. Using images and powerful stories, the Death with Dignity National Center continues to advocate for terminally ill patients who wish to be able to make their own end-of-life decisions. Examples of the images used by the Death with Dignity National Center can be seen below. The Death with Dignity National Center takes advantage of the different rhetorical appeals, which are different techniques used in writing or images to persuade the audience. These rhetorical appeals grab the Agudelo 2 attentions and subconsciously encourages the audience to sympathize with the author (Savolainen). In the case of the Death with Dignity National Center, the purpose of the images to persuade the audience to take a stand and support the legalization of euthanasia, by utilizing rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos and kairos. The first image displays the picture of a woman speaking through a microphone. The Death with Dignity National Center uses pathos by adding the quote will either die with the law in place, or fighting for When the image and the quote are paired together it makes the audience feel empathy towards the woman. The quote shows just how important the cause is for the woman, because she is willing to fight for it until the end. Furthermore, the company adds a link at the bottom that invites you to read story which makes the audience feel Agudelo 3 intrigued. On the other hand, the second image displays pathos by simply adding the word next to two clocks. The word donate is used often in situations where people are in need or are raising funds for an important cause; therefore, by using this word the organization encourages the audience to donate money after they have read some of the personal stories and learned more about the organization. After donating money, people often feel generous and satisfied with themselves because they believe they have done something good. This essentially boosts the ego, while at the same time raising funds for the organization. Other rhetorical appeals used by the organization to raise funds and engage the audience is that of ethos. Ethos can be seen on the first image when it states The use of that sentence allows the audience to see everything the organization has done for Rebecca. It gives the organization credibility, because it shows the audience that the organization has indeed helped those in need and uses the funds raised to help spread awareness. Another example of ethos can be seen on the second image. The organization uses the word which once clicked leads to a site that ensures you that the transaction and everything is being done safely. Furthermore, it shows the audience different ways in which their money will be used if they decide to donate. This gives the organization credibility, because they re-assure the audience that their money is being used properly. However, these images were found on the website, it can be suggested that the use of ethos is not their main concern, because they already have support from politicians and well known organizations proving their credibility embedded on their website, such as their section and several others. The first image displays the rhetorical appeal of logos by simply adding the quote will either die with the law in place, or fighting for The quote shows the audience the harsh reality of the issue and it shows how serious the cause is. This displays logos, because it is a known fact Agudelo 4 that people are suffering and dying from terminal illnesses, without having the opportunity to make decisions for themselves. The second image on the other hand, utilizes logos in a more obvious and logic way. The image shows to clocks which without a doubt is persuading the audience into believing and understanding that the subject requires their action immediately. By putting these two clocks there and adding the word to the image, it is persuading the audience into believing that their donations and their help is needed as soon as possible because the subject is time dependent. The organization strategically used this image and paired it with the word donate, because they truly believe that the more money is donated the quicker they can spread awareness for the cause and possibly even get the Death with Dignity Law passed in other states. The last rhetorical approach, is that of kairos. Kairos is the appeal to time or urgency, and the Death with Dignity National Center makes sure to use it in most their images. The first image, uses the rhetorical approach of kairos by simply adding the quote will either die with the law in place, or fighting for This quote, serves to make the audience understand that the situation depends on time. Most terminally-ill patients are given a few months or if they are lucky years to live after their diagnosis, and that is the purpose of this image and the quote. It shows the audience that the woman with the microphone knows her days are limited, and she is so passionate about the cause that she is willing to fight for it until her last one. This makes the audience understand that this situation needs to be addressed with urgency or at least in a timely manner. The second image, addresses the rhetorical approach of kairos more obviously. The organization chose to use a photograph of two clocks with the word The clocks are a worldwide symbol for time and the one on the right is often associated with an alarm clock, which means that people will often link images of clocks with a sense of urgency. The image Agudelo 5 itself makes the audience feel like this is a very sensitive topic that requires immediate action. It gives the audience the sense of urgency when it comes to the cause, and by adding the word donate it makes the audience believe that their donations and support are needed immediately. Essentially the Death with Dignity National Center makes use of all four of the rhetorical approaches throughout most their images. The rhetorical approaches are used in several images throughout their website, and this can be seen in the two images discussed above. These approaches are used mainly to persuade the audience into supporting, learning more, and making donations towards the cause. The Death with Dignity National main goal is to advocate for terminally ill patients who wish to be able to make their own end-of-life decisions Us: Death with and this is supported by the images used throughout their website. By continuing to use images and utilize and implement all the rhetorical approaches, the Death with Dignity National Center might successfully begin to raise more awareness for their cause. (Word Count: 1385) Agudelo 6 Work Cited Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017 Savolainen, Reijo. Use of Rhetorical Strategies in Q&A Journal of Documentation, vol. 70, no. 1. Jan. 2014, p.93. EBSCOhost, exproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edb&AN=93621264&site=eds-live.