Dong 1 Yongfeng Dong Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 4/30/2017 Gun violence Gun violence refers to acts of violence committed by using firearms. It is the unlawful use of firearms with the intent to inflict harm on other individuals or to oneself. Aside from this, the numerous accidental deaths which occur from gun related incidents warrants significant attention to laws regarding proper handling, storage and usage of firearms in a private capacity. In America, the second amendment in the constitution gives people the right to own and bear a firearm. This law has made guns readily available. The vetting procedure in the purchase of a firearm is so lax that guns fall into the hands of unstable people. The American Public Health Association states that gun related incidences account for the majority of deaths in America with approximately 30,000 people dying each year and roughly 60,000 individuals being injured. The fact that this figure is high signifies that action needs to be taken to reduce the number of deaths that occur. Many organisations such as the Women Against Gun Violence (WAGV) have advocated that policy makers make amendments to the constitution so as to be able to protect individuals especially children from gun-related crimes. This proposal has brought on a huge debate regarding gun violence in the country with many conservative Republicans advocating that it is their right to own guns for their protection as well as their families. Conventional groups like the National Rifle Association (NRA) has continued to fight every attempt by liberals to impose stricter gun control laws. The response to the increase in mass shootings especially Dong 2 around school institutions is that people in authority such as teachers and security guards should be issued with guns so that they can be able to protect innocent children. The contradicting point, in this case, is how a teacher is supposed to shoot a student while there is a much simpler solution where the supply of guns can be cut off and thus ceasing mass shootings in schools. The issue of gun violence in educational institutions stems from the fact that America is especially notorious when it comes to the number of instances that gun related shootings have occurred in learning institutions. It mainly takes place in High schools and colleges throughout the country, and there is no way of predicting which school would suffer the atrocity next. However, a common factor is the demographic of the shooters. If people in a position of authority such as teachers can identify these individuals beforehand and detect the characteristic markers that are usually pinpointed right before shooting, they can be able to prevent these disasters from occurring. The distinctive feature of most school related shooters is that they are often isolated from other students. The disturbing fact is that most shooters are of a particular demographic. In a recent study, analysis of past school shootings revealed the fact that most of the shooters were predominantly male accounting for 97% with 79% of that demographic being Caucasian. The study showed that primarily white men from the middle or upper class were most likely to cause school shootings judging from historical data. However, what is common among these shooters is that they present with similar characteristics and behavioural pattern before the shootings. They are mostly described as quiet and recluses who keep to themselves at first but start exhibiting erratic behaviour that is out of their characters. These are usually the first tale tell signs that parents and teachers can use as markers to recognise potential shooters. Dong 3 Applying the case study of the Columbine High School massacre that occurred in 1999, we will examine the nature of the behavioural changes and the mental capacity of the shooters before they attacked the school. Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold had orchestrated the attack planning it meticulously beforehand showing that their intent was to kill. Harris had been known to be suffering mental problems previously as he frequently visited a psychiatrist who had prescribed for him antidepressants. Also, the two boys had kept journals and videos in which they documented their intent to kill everyone that they disliked as well build bombs that they could use in their school. The fact that persons in authority had been made aware of these videos yet did not react shows that the disaster could have been averted. However, the major issue is how Harris and Dylan were able to acquire guns and explosive material in the first place that they were able to build a bomb. Gun related crimes are not only limited to schools but also occur in the day to day society. An example is the shooting that took place in Aurora, Colorado inside a movie theatre and the Orlando nightclub shooting. The fact that these are all social activities that we partake in daily shows that nobody is safe and that the only way to curb gun violence is to cut off the supply itself. If not, the only place that we may assume we would be safe is our homes not accounting for the number of home break-ins where the perpetrators wield deadly firearms. The issue itself comes about with gun control and the fact that the constitution allows any person to possess a firearm as it is his/her right. Stricter laws should be enforced regarding the purchase of guns as well as more stringent vetting procedures prescribed. If not every time that a child would leave for school a parent might wonder whether it may be the last time that they see them. The issue of gun control affects everybody as no one is safe unless more safety procedures are implemented. We can resolve this problem by lobbying lawmakers to repeal the Dong 4 second amendment regarding the right of every person to bear firearms. It can be argued that this law has done more harm than good owing to the number of homicides, suicides not to mention accidental deaths that occur each year as a result of gun-related crimes. However, the move to annul this law would be a hard one owing to the many conformist groups such as the National Rifle Association who view this law in par with their fundamental right to live and enjoy other freedoms set out in the constitution. However, if more people can band together and the number is significant enough, we can be able to launch a campaign that would attract the attention of Congress and the media that so as to persuade lawmakers to rescind the law if not amend it to enforce stricter gun control regulations. Only then can we live peacefully without apprehension that our loved ones or even we are safe. Dong 5 Works Cited Women Against Gun Violence. About Us. 2017. Web. 30 April 2017. <http://wagv.org/about-wagv/>. National Rifle Association. 2017. Web. 30 April 2017. https://home.nra.org/