Campbell 1 Jason Campbell Professor Maria Theodosiou ENC1102.075 24 February, 2017 HHS Combats Smoking The cigarette industry has managed to flourish each year, despite the negative effects of smoking. In the United States alone, roughly 500,000 people die prematurely each year as a result of directly smoking cigarettes, or being exposed to cigarette smoke (HHS.gov). The United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is a government organization that aims to improve the overall health of Americans. Both images reflect the ideals of the HHS through a combination of rhetorical appeals to steer the public away from smoking by depicting two possible futures for smokers. The Department of Health and Human Services has eleven different divisions, with three human service agencies and eight agencies in the United States public health service. These divisions provide a range of health and human services, as well as life- changing research to the American people (CDC.gov). The Surgeon General is a part of the HHS, and works as the nations doctor, providing Americans with the best information available on how to improve and maintain their health. In 1984, Congress passed the Comprehensive Smoking Education Act, which required all cigarette packages and advertisements to have warning labels from the Surgeon General (CDC.gov). Smoking can impact a person regardless of their age, gender, or economic status. Both images target the American public with the intention of steering them away from smoking through a combination of the rhetorical appeals Pathos, Ethos, Logos, and Kairos. Campbell 2 Pathos is an appeal to emotion, with the intention of having the audience connect with the overall argument or message (Rhetoric Really Matters, 37). In the first image, the area of focus is a pair of scars located above the ribs of a woman (Kristy), and seeing the scars evoke a strong sorrowful emotion. Having the scars as the center, and main focus of the image is results in the audience have an emotional connection as soon as possible. The color saturation for the image is low and combined with a black background for the rest of the image, gives a serious and bleak tone for the picture. The only notable feature on the woman other than her scar is a downcast and miserable frown on her face, expressing her pain. The area of focus for the second image is the razor and gaping hole in the neck of a man (Shawn). The main text on the image reads Be careful not to cut your  and is located close to the razor, which is moving down his neck. His gaze is focused directly at, and almost through the viewer while he shaves his neck, which is extremely unsettling. The hole is an unsightly attraction, and combining that with the moving razor in his hand results in an uncomfortable and frightening feeling. This image is targeted more towards men with the hopes of invoking fear and provoking the thought I do not want this to be . Shaving is an act of personal hygiene that almost all men do on a consistent basis. Seeing this image gives the male population the unsettling idea of having the same condition as Shawn and having to shave. His pain is also expressed through his eyes and facial expression which leaves viewers with a greater sense of fear. The method of persuasion through demonstrating credibility is the rhetorical appeal of ethos (Rhetoric Really Matters, 27). Both images effective reach their audience through their established credibility. Both images contain a text box located near the top which reads A tip from a former . Having information on the experience of a former smoker is the most effective way to communicate the dangers. A sizable logo of the HHS is also placed on the Campbell 3 bottom, accompanied by the website link for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and a hotline for those interested in quitting smoking. The image with Kristy has her quote placed next to her scar which reads I started using e-cigarettes but kept smoking. Right up until my lung . Having her quote serves as a warning to people currently smoking, because she is someone who was once in their shoes and did not stop when she had the chance. The second image has a warning on the bottom stating that smoking can cause throat cancer, as it did with Shawn. This statement gains credibility from the gaping hole in neck, along with the text under his quote stating that he was diagnosed with throat cancer at age 46. Logos is the rhetorical appeal to logic and reason (Rhetoric Really Matters, 32). The HHS aimed to reach and persuade the audience through fear of possible effects of smoking. In image, her quote presents the fact that smoking cigarettes can result in a collapsed lung and sets the focus of the image on her scars from the surgery. There is also a text box giving background on smoking, stating that she stopped smoking even after developing a cough and having severe shortness of breath, which were steps before her lung collapsing. Throat cancer is a common result of smoking, and the image with Shawn has a text box on the bottom that presents the fact that smoking immediately causes damage to your body and also states that it caused throat cancer for Shawn. Kairos is an appeal to timeliness or utilizing the most efficient moment for persuasion (Rhetoric Really Matters, 41). The image with Kristy has a text box that ends with . . .Even smoking a few cigarettes a day is dangerous. .  And having this information presented persuades the audience to act promptly because each day that they smoke causes more damage to their bodies, and may lead to a collapsed lung like Kristy. The text box on the second image urges the audience to act in a timely manner by stating that smoking immediately causes damage Campbell 4 to your body. After viewing both images, the audience is left with the message that if they have already started smoking, the best thing for them to do is quit immediately. Together, both pictures serve as a scare tactic to push the American public away from smoking cigarettes. Both images present former smokers that currently have abnormalities to their bodies as a result of smoking, a quote from the smoker, information for the Department of Health and Human Services, and a call number for individuals interested in quitting smoking. The images mainly use the rhetorical appeal of pathos when presenting the dangers of smoking, hoping to evoke emotions of either fear or sympathy for the people depicted and scare the audience. The area of focus in the image with Shawn is his razor moving towards his stoma, the gaping hole in his neck, which unsettles a viewer and causes a feeling of disgust and fear. The image of Kristy focuses on her scar, and shows the depressed face she has as she shows her scar. Both images are aimed towards American, middle aged people, however the image with Shawn is aimed more towards men. For the HHS, these images successfully convey their stance on smoking while informing the American people on the negative effects of smoking. (1200) Campbell 5 Campbell 6 Works Cited Center for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC.gov, Accessed 24, February 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. United States Department of Health and Human Services. HHS.gov, https://www.hhs.gov/about/agencies/hhs-agencies-and-offices/index.html. Accessed 24, February 2017.