Kaytlyn Gill Krista Townsend Comp 2 30 April 2017 Real Beauty Matters the Most The amount of effect that social media has on young people today is outstanding. According to Adweek, an article on How many people use social media in this world, about 400 million people use Instagram. How much does one really care about the likes they get on a certain picture? Or how much time does one spend on editing and photoshopping their picture? This paper will advocate for a real beauty challenge. Our generation has lost the definition of what real beauty is, and I believe social media, especially Instagram, has contributed to this new definition of beauty. The amount of images that are being photoshopped today is out of this world. I do feel pressured to appear a certain way. I would hate for people to think: looks totally different in But I would never edit anything to make it not look like me. I definitely feel that I have to look as good when I go somewhere as I do on Instagram. I feel more pressure in real This is a quote from Lindsay Correia in Young Woman on Instagram and self esteem article written by Mahita Gajanan. This is one of thousands of girls who feel this way being on social media. There needs to some sort of social movement change to fix this wrong view of what beauty really is. The stakeholder that advocated for this real beauty challenge is The Dove Real Beauty Campaign. The Dove Real Beauty campaign is a campaign for young girls and young woman celebrate and embrace the bodies they were given and to feel confident and comfortable in the skin they are in. This was created in 2004 by Ogilvy & Mather. Ogilvy & Mather is an advertising company in New York, but started in London. Doves motto is, We believe beauty should be a source of confidence, and not anxiety. why we are here to help women everywhere develop a positive relationship with the way they look, helping them raise their self- esteem and realize their full  (Our Vision) This campaign today is featured on billboards, videos, commercials, and more. To get the real beauty to come out they interviewed many women of different backgrounds and diversity. According to a blog post by a blogger who goes by Femnasty, Photoshop tells us not okay to have a normal body with flaws. Society holds women to such impossible standards that they resort photo editing(Femnasty). Approximately 80% of U.S. women like how they (Gallivan, Heather R.). I believe without all the picture editing that we have, this problem be here. Teens often compare themselves to the social stars and celebrities and in that process they become depressed. According to NY Daily news, about 53 percent of 13-year-old girls have issues with how their bodies look, a percentage that rises to 78 percent when girls turn 17(Roberts, Christine). Everyone who uses social media or has a woman or man in their life they care about, will or already have been affected by this problem. Social media being a prominent activity to participate in will most likely put every person who uses it at risk for self esteem issues. Men should care about this issue because every man has a woman of some sort in their life. For example, a man who has a little sister want his little sister comparing herself to unrealistic body types and faces. He wants his sister to feel beautiful in the skin in. This also goes for men with girlfriends, or even just a simple friend. Women the only ones who suffer from social media self esteem issues. Women seem to be more open about it but men also have self esteem and body image issues. Women should really care about this issue and campaign because it has the most effect on us. The celebrities who photoshop their images often are girls. Earlier this year, psychologists found robust cross-cultural evidence linking social media use to body image concerns, dieting, body surveillance, a drive for thinness and self- objectification in (Simmons, Rachel) Although social media the actual cause of all this, it does play a huge role and we should all take this serious. We as a generation are constantly looking for approval through other through social media. People are able to alter everything about their appearance on social media, even whiten teeth. Although my main audience are younger people of the generation, the older and wiser people should really care about this situation because they have the power to make a change and sway opinions. There are many options for the call to action of this social media issue. As individuals you can first, be aware of the problem. Before you act on something you must first be aware and educated on going on. If people pay closer attention to see the unrealistic images of beauty on social media, they will start to care about the situation. We as a generation need to come to together and start our own movement against the fakeness on social media and start promoting real beauty. nothing wrong with makeup and filters occasionally but constantly and overdoing it becomes overwhelming for young women and men. The pressure for young girls and boys to look a certain way has really increased over the past years, and we all need to be aware. There are many steps we can take to get through to everyone, including the celebrities who are doing the photoshopping, they should become aware of how influential they truly are. In order for real steps to be taken with this issue we all need to speak out and take It serious. Instagram and or all social media sites and The Dove Real Beauty campaign can work together on these problems. Instagram can propose to all of the celebrities and popular people to join this campaign movement. They could put a stop to the use of Photoshop, and filters, and edits. If getting rid of filters and edits is too extreme there could be a slight break from the filters and edits. There are many other organizations and campaigns out there similar to the Dove Campaign. Using hashtags to these organization on social media site to raise awareness to the problem is a huge solution. A few of the organizations are called The Perfect Body, No Angel, Lose Hate, Not Weight, and Love Your Body. Just by using simple hashtags under pictures with no edits can bring awareness and get young people to see the real definition of beauty. If young woman see the people they admire on social media promoting and fighting for the Real Beauty campaign they will start to feel better about themselves. They will start to realize the unrealistic body type, hair, and face shapes are in the past. Young woman look up to these celebrities and look to Instagram as an escape and somewhere to build confidence. Action need to be taken, and it needs to be taken fast. In conclusion, social media plays such a huge role in this generation today. That is why it is crucial to fix this search for approval that young people are constantly looking for. They often search for it in the worst ways possible. People need to realize something needs to be done about the photoshop and unrealistic looks and body types in the media, especially Instagram, and they need to realize it soon. We as whole and celebrities as a whole should come together with The Dove Real Beauty Campaign and encourage the younger people to love the skin they are in and its okay to have flaws. Works Cited Gallivan, Heather R. Teens, Social Media, and Body  Thousands of Lives Restored What Is Body Image? (n.d.): n. pag. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Femnasty. Instagram + Photoshop = The Fitness  Welcome to the Goddess Uprising. N.p., 07 Mar. 2016. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Roberts, Christine. Most 10 Year-olds Have Been on a Diet:  NY Daily News. N.p., 02 July 2012. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Gajanan, Mahita. Young Women on Instagram and Self-esteem: Absolutely Feel  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 04 Nov. 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. ANNO Our  Dove UK. N.p., 22 June 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. ANNO Simmons, Rachel. How Social Media Is a Toxic  Time. Time, n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017.