Al Maamari 1 Mohammed Al Maamari Professor Collins ENC 1102 6 May 2017 Lung Cancer Is A Leading Killer Everyone must be aware of the dangers that threat his life and his family. Smoking has continued to be a danger that threats societies and families for a long time and an extreme threat to public health. Moreover, smoking has many types like cigars and smokeless tobacco, using these types causes various health issues and diseases. Smoking is harmful to every organ in human bodies and it causes different types of cancers such as, lung cancer, which is the most one caused by smoking and it is the leading cause of cancer death, as well as, mouth cancer, throat cancer, and kidney cancer. In addition, 22% of United States adults who are between 18 to 24 are current smokers (Seo 1). During the period between 1965 and 1990, the percentage of adult smokers in the United States has decreased (Hecht 1). There have been many cases detected about the danger of smoking in the United States or worldwide. For example, studies have shown that lung cancer kills more than one million people around the world (1). Lung Cancer is one of the leading causes that drive to cancer death for both men and women in the United States and the whole world since it causes 9 out of 10 cancer deaths (Blahd 1), therefore, people should make a difference by being educated about the dangers of smoking and helping smokers to quit since there have been many alternatives found that can be used instead of smoking cigarettes. Al Maamari 2 Lung cancer is mostly caused by smoking. It is not only special for men, it also affects women. Cigarettes contain cancer-cause chemicals such as nicotine, so the defense system of human body is going to be harmed if the person gets used to these cigarettes. As lung cancer gets worse, different symptoms are going to appear such as hard cough, chest pain, and shortness of breath. The Preventive Services Task Force of the United States recommends that smokers who are aged between 55 to 80 to get checked by a CT scan every year since this technology may pick up early cancers (Blahd 4). There are two types of lung cancer, small cell cancer and non-small cell cancer, the first one is considered more aggressive and dangerous because it quickly spreads to the other parts of the body. Moreover, it is rare in non-smokers because it is tied strongly to cigarettes use. The non-small cell cancer is less dangerous since it is more common and grows slowly, and this type is responsible for almost 85% of lung cancers. Many people are wondering about what are the possible solutions that can be done in order to help smokers to quit. It is a challenge for smokers to quit smoking since nicotine is a component of cigars and it is considered a factor that forms habit, and habits are hard to break. Once nicotine is inhaled, it goes into the bloodstream and then it stimulates the brain, therefore, the person gets addicted to it (Kenny 1). In my opinion, Nicotine Replacement Therapy (NRT) is an efficient way to help smokers to quit smoking. There are many alternatives that can be used to get nicotine in the bloodstream without smoking such as gums, patches, inhalators, tablets and sprays (1). These products are offered in different pharmacies and outlets. There are special instructions to use these nicotine replacements, so smokers take advice doctors and stop smoking clinics. NRT increased the rate of succeeded smokers to quit by 70%, studies showed Al Maamari 3 that 17 out of 100 persons successfully stopped smoking (2). Personally, I believe in that the mental factors of a person are very effective to lead him to a turning point in his life. Therefore, if a smoker has the real desire to quit smoking, he should take some further actions such as list the reasons that motivated him to quit. Furthermore, he should tell his relatives and beloved ones about his intentions since relatives always give support and effective motivations to whom they love. The society is always full of people who want their lives to be better and change to the best. Even those who do not smoke can help smokers to quit. They do not have to force someone to quit, however, they can participate in volunteering campaigns that support smokers. There are many organizations that aim to save lives by improving and ensuring the health knowledge to the public through the programs and opportunities that they offer. For example, according to the American Lung Association main website, the association focuses on five vital goals: defeat lung cancer, improve breathing air, reduce the burden of lung diseases on individuals and their families, eliminate the diseases caused by tobacco and related products and finally they try to accelerate and enhance the effectiveness of their efforts. The American Lung Association spend much effort in providing different opportunities for people to advocate and volunteer and these opportunities give people the chance to make an action in the society. Lung Action Network is a program established by the American Lung Association. It gives the opportunity to people to be advocates for policies that save lives and improve lung health and prevent lung diseases. By becoming advocates, people are going to lend their voices Al Maamari 4 to the efforts that are done to reduce the effects of lung diseases. Once a person signs up to the Lung Action Network, he will receive offers and opportunities to contact the federal and state officials about the vital lung diseases issues. Since volunteering plays a vital role in every society, I would recommend to everyone who wants to help society and smokers to participate in such opportunities. The associations that launch such programs welcome everyone who has the passion to become involved and engaged in their mission. For example, Better Breathers Club, this program offers support groups for individuals who want to quit smoking and want to breath better. This program helps individuals to learn better ways to deal with lung diseases and gives them the tools to live with the best quality. This program gives individuals the opportunity to share their experiences and talk to others who understand them in order to give them a positive impact. Better Breathers Club has many branches in each state, there are about 10 branches in Florida. In conclusion, studies shown that smoking is very harmful to a very far extent. It was detected that smoking is the cause of lung cancer which is the leading driver to cancer deaths among both men and women around the world. There were no changes and actions taken since a long time, and this led to a huge and critical problem that affects every society. Therefore, everyone should consider this time to be a change point and make a difference. There are many ways invented to help smokers to quit such as NRT. In addition, non-smokers also should educate themselves about the risk the threat their societies. There are many organizations and people who want to make a difference and Al Maamari 5 have the passion to have healthy lives, and the American Lung Association is a great example of these organizations. They did, and are doing much effort to save lives and improve the public health, and defeat lung cancer. There are many offered programs such as Lung Action Network that offers volunteering and advocacy opportunities for people and Better Breathers Club. Therefore, with all this network of the ways to stop spreading this danger, we all should take an action and make a difference. Al Maamari 6 Work Cited Blahd, William. A Visual Guide to Lung  WebMD(2016): 1-20. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.webmd.com/lung-cancer/ss/slideshow-lung-cancer-overview>. Hecht, Stephen. Tobacco Smoke Carcinogens and Lung Cancer  Journal of the National Cancer Institute91.14 (1999): n. pag. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://academic.oup.com/jnci/article/91/14/1194/2549271/Tobacco-Smoke- Carcinogen s-and-Lung-Cancer>. Lung  American Lung Association.N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://www.lung.org/>. Seo, Dong, Jonathan Macy, Mohammed Torabi, and Susan Middlestdt. The effect of a smoke-free campus policy on college smoking behaviors and  Science Direct 53.4-5 (2011): 347-52.USF.Web. Al Maamari 7 Al Maamari 8 Al Maamari 9