Tribble 1 Justyce Tribble Professor Gill ENC1102 May 2, 2017 Go Vegan for the Planet So what is climate change and animal agriculture? Climate change is by definition a change in global or regional climate patterns and is attributed largely to the increased levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide produced by the use of fossil fuels. The topic of climate change has been a popular one within the United States whether it is discussed between environmentalists, economists, and even between citizens. Although climate change is often only linked with the use of fossil fuels being the cause of it, many people fail to realize that there is a larger culprit and that is animal agriculture and factory farming. Animal agriculture is the practice of breeding animals for the production of animal products and for recreational purposes. Animal agriculture is the grain and water used to feed the animals before they are slaughtered while factory farming is the actual slaughtering of the animals. In order to help fight climate change is essential that people learn the truth about the meat and dairy industry, and establish a vegan lifestyle that will not only benefit the animals and our health, but it will also benefit our environment. According to Christopher Hyner in his journal named A Leading Cause of Everything: One Industry That Is Destroying Our Planet and Our Ability to Thrive on It, he states that the continued demand for and reliance on animal products is the one issue that is at the heart of all global change, deforestation, ocean dead zones, species extinction, fisheries depletion, world hunger, food safety, heart disease, diabetes, osteoporosis, and the list goes on Tribble 2 (Hyner). It is important that people who consume animal products learn the real harm it does not only to human health and the animals, but also the harm animal agriculture does to the environment. Addressing these problems seems to be an easy task until it is discovered that the meat and dairy industry pay companies to keep the truth out of the public eye. The meat and dairy industries feed the public lies while also not revealing the whole truth about what really is going into the animal products and the environment. In journal it states that according to the United States Department of Agriculture, global animal agriculture accounts for about 30 percent of greenhouse gas emissions into the environment (Hyner). It has been found that about 18 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions can be directly attributed to the livestock production of animal agriculture (Hyner). Animal agriculture emissions are only going to increase with the demand for the consumption of animal products; animal agriculture contributes to about an 80 percent increase of global greenhouse gas emissions (Hyner). Digging a little deeper, the infamous movie called Cowspiracy goes into detail about how dangerous animal agriculture is for the environment; this documentary is not afraid to get into the facts and is a great source to when deciding to go vegan for the planet. For example, the online Cowspiracy fact pages states that and their byproducts account for at least 32,000 million tons of carbon dioxide per year, or 51% of all worldwide greenhouse gas (Cowspiracy). With this information, it is evident that animal agriculture is the leading factor in the effects of climate change all around the globe. As stated before, going vegan means that one will not consume or use any form of animal products at all; this means all meat products, dairy products, and certain foods that include animal byproducts into the ingredients like, for example, out of the skin of a Tribble 3 is often used when making gummies. However, that is beside the point because when you choose to go vegan, you choose compassion for the animals and sustainability for our beloved planet. Our planet is dying everyday an animal product is made and used. We can be the ones to help save our planet by simply ditching all animal products and byproducts. Animal agriculture is the biggest culprit when it comes to the topic of climate change. According to its article called Climate Change by Going PETA states that climate change ultimately has an effect on every continent, affects agriculture, human health, ecosystems, water supplies and livelihood (PETA.org). PETA also says that if you are really concerned about protecting the environment then you should feel obligated to stop consuming meat, eggs, and dairy foods (PETA.org). When the industries feed massive amounts of grain and water to farm animals only to kill them, process, transport, and store their flesh is extremely energy- intensive (PETA.org). To raise livestock, forests are often cut down in order to supply pastureland and grow crops for farmed happens with no regards to how forests actually absorb greenhouse gases from getting into the environment (PETA.org). Powerful greenhouse gases include carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide. A large amount of methane is produced when billions of farm animals are crammed unto U.S. factory farms each year. In fact, the Protection Agency has shown that animal agriculture is globally the single largest source of methane emissions and that, pound for pound, methane is more than 25 times as effective as carbon dioxide at trapping heat in our (PETA.org). It was discovered by the U.N. that the meat, egg, and dairy industries account for about 65 percent of worldwide nitrous oxide gas emissions (PETA.org). Sixty-five percent! You could diminish and even erase your carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide footprint by simply going vegan and leaving all animals off of your plate. The food that animal product eaters Tribble 4 consume is said to be responsible for over one-quarter of global greenhouse gas emissions; and of that, 80 percent are linked to livestock production. So, do vegans really help save the planet? The answer is yes. It may not seem like it but vegan choices are more sustainable than people may realize. According to VegNews.com and its article Ways Being Vegan Saves the going vegan will protect our soils, conserve water, save energy, clear the air, and combat world hunger (VegNews.com). Raising animals for livestock erodes soil while also causing desertification and deforestation, pollutes 70 percent of fresh water, and causes air pollution (VegNews.com). Adopting a vegan lifestyle is easy and more people are choosing to do so every day. Going vegan is the number way to prevent and stop the effects of climate change every person on Earth adopted a vegan lifestyle, a study by the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences found that greenhouse gas emissions associated with the food system in 2050 would fall by more than half compared to 2005/2007 (Magazine). Environmentalists everywhere are trying to get to the bottom of climate change and what may be causing it when many still consume animals and their byproducts. You cannot be an environmentalist and still consume animals. So please, if you care about the planet and want to still have sustainable life here then you should go vegan. It is an easy switch and there are many outlets where you can get all of the information you need in regards to where you get your nutrients and protein while also shopping for less while in the grocery store or a whole foods store. Our planet is dying and it is up to us to save it, one plate at a time. Tribble 5 Works Cited and COWSPIRACY, www.cowspiracy.com/facts/. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Climate Change by Going PETA, www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-food/global- warming/. Accessed 2 May 2017. Hyner, Christopher. https://journals.law.stanford.edu/stanford-environmental-law-journal- elj/blog/leading-cause-everything-one-industry-destroying-our-planet-and-our-ability-thrive-it. 25 October 2015. 16 April 2017. if the whole world went Conservation, 21 Mar. 2016, www.conservationmagazine.org/2016/03/can-vegans-really-save-planet/. Accessed 2 May 2017. Whitney Lauritsen February 18, 2016. Ways Being Vegan Saves the VegNews.com, vegnews.com/articles/page.do?pageId=4425&catId=3. Accessed 2 May 2017.