Townsend 1 Kiera Townsend Instructor Townsend ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Universal Background Check Gun violence is a very pressing issue in our country today. Currently, there are more than 12,000 gun homicides a year in the United States, which is 25 times higher than the average gun homicide rate of other developed countries. Non-fatal gun violence incidents in the United States are 78,815 per year Violence by the USF students should advocate for an increase in background checks prior to a firearm purchase to prevent those who are not allowed to have a firearm according to the Federal Gun Control Act of 1968 from purchasing firearms legally, and then injuring or murdering someone. If a universal background check was implemented, it would be a step towards reducing the amount of gun violence in the United States. The Federal Gun Control Act of 1968 states that certain cannot purchase or possess a firearm, including anyone imprisoned for a crime for more than a year, anyone committed to a mental institution, illegal aliens, or anyone convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence Prohibited About 34% of all gun purchases occur without a background check (Masters). This does not include the guns transferred as gifts from family members and private purchases the opposition uses to counter the argument for more background checks. This gives the opportunity of to legally purchase a firearm. If a Universal Background Check were to be implemented, less firearm transactions would go without a background check, reducing the opportunity of Townsend 2 purchasing firearms, and therefore reducing the number of gun violence injuries and homicides occurring from these firearms. A study found in Health Affairs journal titled Violence, Mental Illness, And Laws That Prohibit Gun Possession: Evidence from Two Florida researched the demographics of gun-related crimes between 2002 and 2011 in Florida counties Miami-Dade and Pinellas. The original intent of the study was to find relations between mental illness and gun- related crimes and suicides to see if there was a correlation between the two. However, one of the interesting findings of this study was that two-thirds of arrests for violent gun related crimes in the study population involved suspects who were already prohibited from legally accessing (Swanson et. al). One category of mentioned in the Federal Gun Control Act of 1968 are those who have committed a misdemeanor in relation to domestic violence. The Act also includes those who receive a restraining order by an intimate partner, which usually is from a domestic violence incident. In 2011, of all the women who were murdered with a gun, 53% were murdered by an intimate partner and Violence against In order to reduce the amount of domestic violence homicides in the United States, a Universal Background Check should be implemented. states that require a background check for every handgun sale, 38% fewer women are shot to death by intimate Violence & An increase in background checks only affects gun purchases that are legal. This does not include those purchased and transferred by criminals by the black market. There is some opposition however to increasing background checks. One such organization is the National Rifle Association (NRA). The NRA believes that increasing background checks will not be effective in lowering gun violence background checks Townsend 3 stop criminals from getting and criminals get firearms not through gun stores but theft, the black market, or family members or This is true, criminals do get firearms in many different ways illegally, which we cannot really do anything about. However, we can decrease the amount of guns possess through legal means, by implementing a background check. The statistics show that increasing background checks do in fact decrease the amount of domestic violence murders by a firearm as previously mentioned. This proves that increasing background checks does make a difference in the amount of gun homicides that occur. Although the NRA does have a point about criminals stealing firearms, we can still make a difference monitoring the legal transactions and making sure do not acquire firearms legally. USF students should care about implementing a universal background check because of the gun violence that occurs right around campus. Most students are subscribed to a text message alert system from the USF Police Department. Students will receive a text message when a crime occurs around campus, and threatens the students in the area. For the Fall 2016 and Spring 2017 semesters, I have personally received 6 text messages alerting me of dangerous crimes that threaten my safety on campus, 5 of which were gun violent related crimes. Although we assume that any of these incidents are because of a legally purchasing a firearm, we do know that gun violence affects our USF campus area. If there is any way in which we can decrease the amount of gun violence in the Tampa area, as USF students, we should be obligated to see that these changes are made to better our community. There are many ways in which USF students can get involved and advocate for an increase in background checks prior to a firearm purchase. The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, Townsend 4 according to their website, was founded in 1974 with the purpose of freedom from gun violence through research, strategic engagement and effective policy The Coalition is made up of many different organizations with the goal of reducing gun violence, including social justice organizations, religious organizations, child welfare advocates, and public health professionals. USF students can access a petition on their website that will go to a Congressman who can make a difference in the legislation regarding an increase in background checks Universal Background Another way USF students can help make a difference is by donating money to the Everytown for Gun Safety Support Fund, which will not only help the organization to campaign for a Universal Background check, but also develop more solutions to gun violence to Everytown and Help Save The most important way a USF student can help advocate for an increase in background checks is to educate their family and friends about the reality of gun violence, and emphasize how important increasing background checks is, and encourage them to make a change as well. Although the Federal Gun Control Act of 1968 prevents certain individuals from purchasing firearms, a significant portion of gun sales occur without the proper background checks to identify these In order to decrease the amount of gun violence and homicides that occur in our USF Tampa area by those prohibited to buy guns, an increase in background checks must be implemented. The decrease in domestic violence homicides alone in states that implement a background check shows just how much of a difference this kind of legislation can make on a community. USF students should sign petitions, educate their friends and family on the importance of background checks, and donate to organizations who can help Townsend 5 get this legislation proposed and passed. It is up to all USF students to make a difference when it comes to gun violence. Townsend 6 Works Cited Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, n.d. csgv.org/about-us/. Accessed 29 January 2017. Nraila.org, National Rifle Association of America Institute for Legislative Action, 8 Aug. 2016, www.nraila.org/issues/background-checks-nics/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Violence & Smartgunlaws.org, Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, 2016, smartgunlaws.org/gun-laws/policy-areas/background-checks/domestic-violence- firearms/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. to Everytown and Help Save Donate.everytown.org, Everytown for Gun Safety Support Fund, 2017, donate.everytownresearch.org/donate/Everytown-Support- ETRFooter. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Violence by the EverytownResearch.org, Everytown for Gun Safety Support Fund, 2017, everytownresearch.org/gun-violence-by-the-numbers/. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. and Violence against EverytownResearch.org, Everytown for Gun Safety Support Fund, 2017, everytownresearch.org/reports/guns-and-violence-against-women/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Prohibited Atf.gov, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, 22 Sept. 2016, www.atf.gov/firearms/identify-prohibited-persons. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. Townsend 7 Jeffrey W. Swanson, Michele M. Easter, Allison G. Robertson, Marvin S. Swartz, Kelly Alanis- Hirsch, Daniel Moseley, Charles Dion, and John Petrila. Violence, Mental Illness, and Laws that Prohibit Gun Possession: Evidence from two Florida Health Affairs vol. 35, no. 6, 2016, pp. 1067-1075. Doi:kjtownsen10.1377?hlthaff.2016.0017. Accessed 29 January 2017. Masters, Kate. How Many People Get Guns Without a Background Check? Fast-Tracked Research Is Set to Provide an Thetrace.org, The Trace, 21 Oct. 2015, www.thetrace.org/2015/10/private-sale-loophole-background-check-harvard-research/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Universal Background Csgv.org, Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, csgv.org/action/pass-universal-background-check-legislation. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017.