Hernandez 1 Juan Hernandez Alison Missler ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Discriminatory Ban on Donations It is common knowledge that blood is essential to every living person. Blood is what transfers oxygen throughout our body so that we can function. Though blood is essential, it can be replaced, which is a good thing, or else it would be difficult to help patients that have lost an excessive amount of blood. Since blood cannot be made, it has to come from people who are willing to donate it. Even though people are encouraged to donate blood, there are certain groups of people who are unable to donate blood. According to the guidelines, people who have been treated for syphilis or gonorrhea are unable to donate blood for about twelve months which is understandable since these two diseases are transferable through blood, but what is not reasonable is that a man who has had sex with another man (MSM) is unable to donate blood for twelve months just because they are at a higher risk of being infected by HIV than most people (Questions about It comes across as homophobic, and feels discriminatory to stop someone from donating blood because they have had sex with another man, and not take into account their lifestyle and individual risk of contracting HIV. In order to show the FDA how the gay community and its straight allies feel about this ban, there is a yearly Gay Blood where gay and bisexual men, who are ineligible to donate blood, promote awareness about this discrimination. They encourage straight allies to show their support against the ban by having them donate blood in their stead to spread awareness of the issue. Hernandez 2 It is not as though there is no reason for this twelve month ban, the problem is that the logic behind this ban seems like rather outdated thinking. The reason that MSM are specifically targeted is because of HIV/AIDS. During the the world was introduce to HIV/AIDS, which was originally coined as the term the term that was colloquially used by people to describe AIDS since it was predominately shown in gay men, and those who were diagnosed with AIDS were not expected to have long life spans (A time line...). The CDC reports that in 2014 that 54% of people that were diagnosed with AIDS were gay and bisexual ). With half of the cases of AIDS coming from gay, and bisexual men it might make sense to put some precautions in place, but this statistic is a little misleading as it is referring to the amount of people who are diagnosed with AIDS, but not this is not the same as the percentage of people in the gay community who have AIDS. Statics like this make it seem as though half of the gay population has AIDS, when in reality they do not. According to the CDC, research from 2014 showed that there was actually only a less than a one percent increase of gay and bisexual men who were diagnosed with HIV/AIDS in comparison to 2010 ). Banning an entire group of people for 12 months based on statistics such as this seems to be more based on old thinking rather than facts, and shows little faith in the improvements of blood testing that the FDA has approved of. Technology can change vastly over the course of three decades, and blood testing techniques are no exception to this. Having a ban in the and even the may have been reasonable since HIV/AIDS was new and not much was known about it, but today there is almost 4 decades worth of information on HIV/AIDS. The Red Cross, like all organizations should, tests all donated blood for HIV, even back in the the Red cross tested donated blood once the FDA had licensed a test for HIV (History of Now HIV tests are far more Hernandez 3 accurate, according to AIDS.gov, current HIV tests can detect HIV as early as one month after contraction of the virus, and these tests can have results back as quickly as one hour (HIV Test types). There has been a vast improvement in the way blood is tested in the past three decades and the FDA should trust that testing methods they themselves have approved of, are able to accurately detect HIV. With these improvements in blood testing it does not seem necessary to have a twelve month ban on MSM. In an article from the new England journal of medical science, Rethinking the it is stated that the risk of HIV being transmitted through the blood supply is in 1.5 and the authors of the article believe that it is unnecessary to have a ban period that last 12 months when HIV can be accurately detected in a much shorter time frame (Chana A. Sacks, et al.). Half of the people diagnosed with AIDS are gay or bisexual men, but that does not mean the majority of gay men and bisexual men have AIDS. This ban is discriminatory because it makes assumptions based events that transpired 3 decades ago, and statics that can be misconstrued. This ban does not take into account the lifestyles; gay men are statically more likely to contract HIV, but anyone can contract HIV or any other sexually transmitted disease if they do not take precautions. The ban is assuming the worst of the gay community, that the majority of gay men are having unprotected sex and that the majority of gay men are spreading disease by doing so. Thinking like this is probably what perpetuated the term A term like makes people think HIV/AIDS only affects gay men, but it can affect anyone regardless of their sexual orientation. The ban has also stopped from the gay community from directly helping each other in a time of need. On Sunday June 12, 2016, there was a shooting at a gay nightclub in Orlando in which 49 people were killed and at least 68 people were injured (Lotan). After this attack, the Hernandez 4 gay community came together to show their support by having vigils, and through other means, but many could not donate blood to help those who were injured in the shooting. It was outrageous that the very community these victims were from could not donate blood in order to help them. This ban stopped people who were ready available and willing to help others from doing so. There is no question that this ban needs to change so that it stops discriminating against gay and bisexual men. That is why the Gay Blood was created in the first place, to help spread awareness of this issue. This issue will not be properly addressed until more people to get involved. People all over the country can participate in the blood drive at one the Gay Blood Drives locations, and if they are unable to attend one of those events they can create a blood drive of their own. Currently there is a campaign called blood equality which is promoting awareness to end the ban; the campaign has a twitter hashtag, #BloodEquality, where people can post information about the ban and information related to it. There are various ways in which a person could help to put an end to the ban, a simple tweet to promote awareness could make a huge difference. The more people that know of this issue the more people there are that can help change things. There does not seem to be a need for a twelve month ban for MSM when testing for HIV has improved vastly over the past three decades. It feels discriminatory that gay and bisexual men are basically being singled out; even though the ban is for 12 months it feels as though it is a permanent ban because gay and bisexual men would have to give up sex for an entire year in order for them to donate blood. This only helps to perpetuate more discrimination against the gay community since it makes it seem as though there is a problem with their blood; it makes it seem as though their blood is unclean, or dirty. The only way to change this ban is if there is more Hernandez 5 awareness of this issue. Everyone that is able to should go out and spread awareness in some way or another. Things will only change once more people get involved to help change it. Hernandez 6 Works cited A Timeline of  AIDS.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research. Questions about Blood Revised Recommendations for Reducing the Risk of Human Immunodeficiency Virus Transmission by Blood and Blood Products - Questions and  U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page. Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. History of Blood  American Red Cross. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 30 Sept. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. HIV Test  Welcome to AIDS.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. 07 Feb. 2017.Disease Control and Prevention, 30 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lotan, Gal Tziperman. Photos offer look inside Pulse in aftermath of mass  OrlandoSentinel.com. N.p., 17 Jan. 2017. Web. 01 May 2017. Sacks, Chana A.1,2, Robert H.3 Goldstein, and Rochelle P.2,3,4,5 Walensky. Rethinking The Ban - The U.S. Blood Supply And Men Who Have Sex With  New England Journal Of Medicine 376.2 (2017): 174-177. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017.