Phillipson 1 Ashley Phillipson Ms. Collins ENC 1102.017 30 April 2017 Temporary Gain from Temporary Game Too many images of fly-swarmed carcases of beloved animals such as elephants, rhinos, and tigers are left to decay under the overbearing sun, their bodies tossed aside, once stripped of their human-assigned values. Humans establish a lasting impact wherever they go. These impacts may be positive such as space exploration on the moon, or negative, such as devastating environmental impacts. Some human interactions with the environment consequently create negative repercussions, one of these being poaching. Poaching is epitomized as the illegal hunting of animals on another territory (Ramsey). Poaching does not go unnoticed, but the efforts to remedy the environment-altering dilemma have proven to be futile. Nearly every country has a poaching dilemma dating back to the Middle Ages when peasants trespassed the lands of the elite to hunt the game on their land during times of famine (Shadow). Thus, it has generated a snowball effect that created the black markets for poached animals (Shadow). Although poaching may create economic benefits for the citizens of the third world countries that commit these crimes, the environmental implications far outweigh the benefits, leading to long term repercussions. Poaching affects everyone: the loss of biodiversity in animal species affects food production, agricultural growth, and other facets of society in an average life; procrastination is not an option when the lives of animals are on the line. Phillipson 2 Africa is one of the many countries that play a tremendous role in the black market of poaching because animal species present in Africa are hunted for highly valued commodities such as ivory from the tusks of elephants and the horns of rhinos (Ramsey). Animals such as elephants, rhinos, tigers, gorillas, and turtles are all poached for one reason or another. On the brink of extinction, most are members of important species that are necessary for their survival. Additionally, these animals are poached for food sources, medicine, and sport. Poaching seems to economically benefit third-world countries, as the steady illegal income for poached goods is high in demand. This seemingly beneficial economic stimulus comes at the expense of the environment. The to poach animals derives from necessary human instinct to survival. In third world countries such as Africa, these animals are one of the few food resources due to lack of vegetation in some regions. Many of these impoverished regions use these animals for their meat. Ultimately, poaching provides the community with sustenance, although it may go against their morals. In certain regions of Africa, some animal species are held to a higher standard, and are sacred to the people in various communities. Nisbert Taisekwa Taringa, a lecturer at the University of Zimbabwe, ultimately exemplified and summarized the divinity of the various animal species in his lecture. To illustrate, the presence of a leopard in the Shona community was sacred and their skins were only to be possessed by the chief leaders, hunting leopards being a rare occasion. At the same time in other regions of Africa, leopards are hunted mercilessly when found due to the high valued print of the skin on the black market (Taiskwa). The previous example was only one of many animals that are considered sacred in African communities. When each of the hundreds of thousands of African communities hold a select Phillipson 3 group of animal species as sacred, it induces societal disputes between those who want to preserve and protect their divine species, and those who desire to hunt the species for economic gain. Fundamentally, poaching generates a societal schism, adding to the long term repercussions when considering the endangerment or extinction of these sacred species. The primary opposition for poaching considers the environmental repercussions that are a result of the illegal hunting of game. Killing specific animals for intrinsic incentives causes a disruption in the food web for animals. Keystone species, such as elephants help to maintain the biodiversity of a habitat by controlling populations that may dominate the food web, or by providing essential resources to various species within the habitat (Thompson). Ultimately, a keystone species can dramatically affect the dynamic of the habitat. When a keystone species is endangered or eliminated, a domino effect follows where other species would also be in danger of extinction following this loss (Rutledge et al). For instance, the presence of elephants in the savanna leads to the consumption of the acacia tree (Rutledge et al). This consumption maintains the grassland area of the savanna where antelopes, zebras, and other species graze: small animals are able to hide in the soil while predators are able to prey on the grazers (Rutledge et al). Disrupting the delicate balance of a habitat by poaching keystone species generates negative repercussions that will change the dynamic of its residents. Environmental consequences that poaching induces are critical reasons as to why poaching must come to an end. It is often argued that poaching produces a positive benefit for those in third world countries. Residents reap the benefits of the tourism that takes place in these highly traveled game sites, for both migratory and resident wildlife. It is believed that when poachers arrive in these regions, the influx in travel, hotel stays, and their other related expenses would provide Phillipson 4 economic benefits; however, just the opposite is proven true. On many accounts in the Serengeti National Park and in Tanzania, poaching has influenced careers in travel guide, driver, hotel, and restaurant industries that have come to rely on the wildlife population for business. According to Wildaid, an organization dedicated to preserving and protecting wildlife, poaching in Tanzania has stunted economic growth in the country by affecting 3.8 million jobs in the tourism-sector focused on the wildlife (Wildaid). Although poaching can create personal economic growth for those willing to sell commodified parts of slaughtered animals on the black market, these selfish crimes result in a negative impact on the environment. Furthermore, poaching only creates temporary gain of economic prosperity because poached wildlife are being hunted and killed at a rate faster than their population can recover. When confronting the issue of poaching, any solution presents both pros and cons. However, creating a strategic plan to alter the course of poaching is better than procrastinating. A traditional method is to educate those who are unaware of the issue, but this solution is a slow-paced method that may require more time than these species have. A more hands-on approach that would lead to more expedited results would be to increase security in the area with high levels of these poached animals, such as between country border. This would require a multi-country effort to stop poaching by using law enforcement to track poachers movement based on the migration of the animals (Bardoff). Ultimately, there is not a perfect solution to the issue of poaching, but taking small steps such as becoming informed by trusted environmental groups such as the World Wildlife Fund and Wildlife Conservation Society is a place to start (Bardoff). On the governmental end, having countries that are more susceptible to poaching Phillipson 5 increase their patrol in areas where poaching is high, would be advantageous in possibly lowering the amount poaching in the area. Thus, we come full circle. Poaching is a devastating issue that is becoming increasingly prevalent in our society. Pictures of slaughtered animals circle the Internet, their origins at every corner of the globe. Procrastinating on fixing this problem will make the situation worse as the economic, societal, and environmental ramifications become more disastrous the longer it persists and the longer we wait for someone else to fix the problem. Progress requires research, spreading the word, and learning from and being involved in environmental groups. Poaching is a problem that cannot wait to be fixed. (Word Count 1325) Phillipson 6 Works Cited Bardoff, J. 10 Groups Working to Protect Animals Targeted by One Green 21 July 2014. Web. 29 Apr. 2017. Ramsey, P. S. Salem Press January. 15 Apr. 2017. Rutledge K, McDaniel M, Doudreau D, Ramroop T, Teng S, Sprout E, Costa H, Hall H, Hunt J. Keystone  Geographic Caryl-Sue, National Geographic Society , 09 Oct. 2012. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Shadow, S. How Poaching  9 December 2008. HowStuffWorks.com. 15 Apr. 2017. Taisekwa, Nisbert T. Sacred Duty of Animals in African Traditional Religion and Future Africa: Appropriating Natures for the Future: Africa and Beyond, University of Zimbobwe, June 2005. 15 Apr. 2017 Thompson, John N. Keystone  Britannica, September. 15 Apr. 2017 WildAid. Tanzania: Poaching Threatens Tourism Industry  WildAid. 2015 Aug. 11. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.