Daya 1 Joshua Daya Ms. Collins ENC 1102 1 May 2017 The Death to The Death Penalty? Why is the death penalty always talked about? Should be brought to the death penalty? Controversy is always linked to an issue as serious as death. Numerous factors are played into cases that deal with the death penalty. Morality is used when discussing this topic as sides debate whether this can be a viable option for punishment in court cases. People must understand what is occurring with this issue in current times. Some people just advocate on something or vote for an issue that they do not know too much about. This cannot work for the death penalty. The death penalty has over time and the public must be educated on the situation. People should also understand that the death penalty presents more problems than other alternatives for capital punishment on defendants in court cases. Therefore, the death penalty is wrong and should be abolished not only nationwide in the US but on a worldwide scale. The death penalty causes several problems for everyone involved. Societal problems, financial problems, and personal problems can all be created through the usage of the death penalty. These can be fixed though through the usage of the current resources such as organizations against the death penalty. Starting off with societal problems, the death penalty leads to many of these. The death penalty affects all aspects of society. This includes the public up to higher authority in a community such as the mayors. When it comes to court cases, the higher authority figures such as the judges are the ones that can create the problems. Jack Greenberg makes a good point about Daya 2 this problem in his scholarly article titled the American System of Capital In his article, he highlights the US justice system as one of the many sources of problems that come from dealing with the issue of the death penalty. Judges are found to the cases that they are dealing with that have a possibility of the death penalty (Greenberg). Unfortunately, these actions done by the judges confidence in the fairness of the death penalty (Greenberg). These kinds of action harm what the public generally believes is to be one of the fairest institutions of the US. Most of the people here in the US need to be aware that this happens more than they think and that they need to advocate to stop these actions from ever occurring again. Another huge societal problem that is affiliated with the death penalty is the controversy with race. There seems to be a racial bias towards African Americans when it comes to court cases and their verdicts. In a General Social Survey in 1990, racial prejudice against African-Americans was a main reason that Whites in the US supported the death penalty (Barkan). This problem adds on to the fact that there are flaws in the justice system when they deal with the death penalty. According to an article titled Case Against the Death on aclu.org, 1930 and the end of 1996, 4220 prisoners were executed in the United States; more than half (53%) were There is also an odd divide when it comes to the statistics of likeliness of African Americans getting murdered. Young African Americans are much more likely to be murdered than when compared to young white men. Unfortunately, this racial problem can be shown regionally as a few studies in a scholarly article show that blacks in the Southern regions of the US receive a lot more discrimination than in other regions (Kleck). These kinds of divisions between races in dealing with the death penalty need to be brought up and discussed. They are unacceptable and it is a big source of future conflicts between people outside of court cases. Daya 3 The death penalty not only brings problems to the society but it also introduces large financial problems for different parts of a court case. There is an article titled penalty by The California Innocence Project. They discussed the financial problems that California ran themselves into due to the usage of the death penalty as an option for capital punishment. Since 1978, their spending for the death penalty executions have totaled to around $4 billion. This makes it $300 million for each of the 13 people that were executed during this period (California Innocence Project). This is such a huge disparity of financial costs when compared to the costs of placing those same people to a sentence to life without any possibility of parole. According to the same article, it would cost $200,000-$300,000 to sentence them to life without parole (California Innocence Project). This should get people to wonder why do courts not take this decision more often as it costs exponentially less to do so. The same desired effects are still there as life without parole brings that deterrent effect but with the added plus of its reduced costs when compared to the costs of the death penalty. By using life without parole, the community can focus its resources on essential functions of society such as education and mental health treatment (Amnesty USA). This is highly beneficial for all of society on a short- term and long-term basis. Another problem that the death penalty deals with is the public on a personal level. The death penalty is a major violation of rights as a human being. There is a scholarly article written by Hugo Adam Bedau that discusses the death penalty and rights against it. He writes punishment is cruel and death penalty violates the constitutional guarantee of equal The death penalty takes away the rights that every American citizen is entitled to so it is a huge problem that something in the American system like the death penalty contradicts with a protection provided in the constitution. The article Case Against Daya 4 the Death by American Civil Liberties Union discusses those constitutional problems. Like Bedau the article states that punishment is cruel and (ACLU). The article then discusses that capital punishment goes back to the more crude and primitive days which makes sense. The usage of something as barbaric as executions can be dated to unfortunate times such as when slavery was such an essential part to society. The US is the only developed country that does this and the US needs to change this notorious fact. This gives a negative image of the US and shows that the US is fine with a contradiction to their own morals and values. This is an important situation to tend to and more people need to advocate against the death penalty. Furthermore, the constitution discusses race and that capital punishment does not follow the constitutional right that there is protection for all at an equal level. No one race should have an advantage over the other. Everyone that is an American citizen should be protected by the US constitution. Despite these major and multiple problems brought to light through the implementation of the death penalty, there are solutions. It is very beneficial to the public now that there are already many organizations that are fighting against the death penalty. One of those organizations is Amnesty International. This is an organization that has been showing advertisements to the public advocating against the death penalty. It is such an easy organization to join and contribute to that anyone can do it! People can call or consider their website and see whether they can contribute on a financial level or even on an advocacy level where they use their voice and help form rallies against the death penalty. Amnesty International base their actions on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and stick to their values and tactics of research, action, and advocacy. People do not have to just join an organization to get their voice out there. They can take actions in their own local communities and speak out about this problem Daya 5 especially if the death penalty is still used in that area. The people have an important tool that they can use and that is themselves. People can make a difference as a group, they just need to act and speak out for what is right. So, people like you might think that you cannot make a difference and have an excuse for it. Well, I want to tell you right now that you can make a difference! There is nothing too big or too small that will not make a change in the fight against the usage of the death penalty in the US. You can just call any organization that actively opposes the death penalty and are fighting against it. Just calling and inquiring information on what you can do is a great first step in this process. Amnesty International provides all their information and makes it very accessible so that anyone can join them! It is possible to just go out into your community with others and have a peaceful protest to the local government on the issue of the death penalty. If you are not one that likes to go out into the public to do so, you can always financially contribute to the cause of different organizations against the death penalty. Another solution that can help eradicate the usage of the death penalty is through the essential tool of education. In a scholarly article published on attitudes towards the death penalty, it was unfortunately found that the reasons Americans support the death penalty are not understood and therefore, most may have an immature reasoning towards their views on the death penalty (Bohm). You could make that change and help within the community. People like you can educate the public on the several problems that come with the death penalty. It is as simple as handing out a flyer with statistics on costs and different facts on the death penalty. Some people understand more visually and with numbers and educating people with flyers could be the most effective tool for persuading them to join the cause against the death penalty. These tasks should not be difficult and that is what makes this process so effective and accessible for Daya 6 anyone to join. So, what are you waiting for? Help these organizations, your community, and even yourself to what can make our society a better place. Bring death to the death penalty! Daya 7 Works Cited Barkan, Steven. Prejudice and Support for the Death Penalty by Journal of Research in Crime and Delinquency, vol. 31. No. 2, 2016, pp. 202-209, http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0022427894031002007#. Accessed 12 April 2017 Bedau, Hugo. Case Against the Death aclu.org. aclu.org, 2012. Web. 12 April 2017. Bohm, Robert. Death Penalty Sage Journals, vol. 14, no. 3, 1987, http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0093854887014003008. Accessed 12 April 2017 Penalty Amnesty USA. Amnestyusa.org, 2017. Web. 12 April 2017 Penalty California Innocence Project. californiainnocenceproject.org, 2016. Web. 12 April 2017. Greenberg, Jack. the American System of Capital Harvard Law Review, 99. 7 (1986): n.pag. Web. 12 April 2017. Kleck, Gary. Discrimination in Criminal Sentencing: A Critical Evaluation of the Evidence with Additional Evidence on the Death American Sociological Review, vol. 46, no. 6, 1981, pp.783-805, Accessed 12 April 2017 Amnesty International, 2017. http://www.amnestyusa.org/about-us/our-mission Accessed 12 April 2017