Shah 1 Akash Shah Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 May 1, 2017 Get Vaccinated! Most children cower in fear at the site of a needle and again at the site of the doctor about to bring them unbearable pain. However, little do they know they are being protected from nefarious pathogens waiting to invade their immune system. Parents vaccinate their children because, although they do not know what, they protect them. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) strives to promote vaccination among the American population to ensure the health of the nation the same way parents protect their children by getting them vaccinated; both the children and some of the American people fear vaccinations. Many of the American people do not understand the effectiveness of vaccinations are opposed to using them on their children. This issue stems from the origin of their discovery. Vaccines have proved to be safe since the late eighteenth century, when they were discovered by the physician Edward Jenner. He came about them through the observations he made about the local milk maids. He first took into account that they were insusceptible to smallpox out breaks. He was determined to find out how their bodies could subsist while others suffered. After, he pursued this observation and hypothesized that they were immune because of previous exposures. He then tested his hypothesis by injecting a miniscule amount of pus into a human subject. The subject remained uninfected by other exposures to the pathogen, thus proving his postulation to be true (Stern and Markel). Shah 2 Since the manifestation of vaccinations they proved to be safe, until Andrew work was brought to light in the scientific community. Wakefield, a gastroenterologist, conducted a study that showed a correlation between taking the measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine and being affected by a syndrome of autism; essentially he was saying the MMR vaccine causes autism. His study was rejected by a group of peer-reviewing experts. Adamant that his findings were valid, he moved to the United States and leaked study to the media who displayed his findings to the public. Before long, parents were convinced that vaccine are unsafe for their children and refused to vaccinate them. Soon, measles outbreaks began as a result of a large portion of children being unvaccinated. As a result of propaganda by the media and vaccines are seen as detrimental or ineffective to health (Knopf). Anti-vaccination campaigns are successful in their propaganda, which result in a large portion of unvaccinated children and poses as a threat to many American communities. The previously mentioned measles outbreak is a perfect example of how detrimental anti-vaccination campaigns can be to the American population. A solution to this debacle is a well-crafted campaign that accosts anti-vaccination campaigns by educating, engaging, persuading Americans to get vaccinated. They will be engaged by showing that people not being vaccinated can lead to outbreaks. They will be educated by being elucidated on how vaccinations work and why people have misconceptions. Finally, they will be encouraged to get a vaccination. Many anti-vaccination campaigns are successful in convincing parents not to vaccinate their children because they see the vaccinations as more of a threat to their children than the diseases themselves. However, what they do not see is the consequences that that not vaccinating their children can lead to. Most often, when parents fail to vaccinate their children, this will lead to an outbreak. Once one child is sick, it is not before long that another unvaccinated child Shah 3 becomes ill and an outbreak begins. One example is the (MMR) vaccine. In the late 1980s parents did not have faith in the effects of the vaccine and believed them to be deleterious for their children; as a result, they immunization rates dropped and outbreaks in Huston, New York, Philadelphia, Los Angeles, and Chicago had infected 18,000 people. In addition, over seventy- five percent of these cases involved unimmunized preschool children whose had neglected to have them vaccinated (Katz and Dawson). Another example is whooping cough or pertussis. The shows trends of pertussis from 1990 to 2015. According to their data infants, who are the most susceptible to the disease and prone to death, continue to have the highest reported rate of pertussis (Surveillance and Reporting). This reiterates that parents are not vaccinating their children, which infect other children and adults. Thus, if they are not vaccinating those who are most susceptible to death by this disease, then this proves that there is an issue with parents in view and knowledge of vaccinations. People tend to not vaccinate themselves and their children because of misconceptions. Fixing these misconceptions will help them the right decision when it comes to getting vaccinated. Some fallacies that people believe to be true are that they can be harmful to children and that they make you sick. Also, people often do not understand how they work and why they need to get vaccinated annually. People most often get the misconception that vaccinations are harmful to children from anti-vaccination propaganda. However, time after time this has been disproven. In fact, subsequently to research on autism and the MMR vaccine being published, he was brought upon the General Medical Council in 2001 and charged with professional misconduct and removed from the medical register in 2004 (Kpnof). Since then, people in the medical community have repeated disproved his results. A recent study in 2016, attempts to rectify a broken view on the reliability vaccines. According to Shah 4 Madsen and Vestergaard, from the Department of Epidemiology and Social Medicine in Aarhus C, Denmark, there is no connection between the MMR vaccine and autism. hypothesis has been subjected to critical evaluation in many different ways, using techniques from molecular biology to population-based epidemiology, and with a vast number of independent researchers involved, none of which has been able to corroborate the hypothesis (Madsen, Vestergaard Evidently, in addition to discrediting any research done to make a connection between autism and the MMR vaccine, a substantial amount of peer-reviewed research has been done to disprove the claim. Despite his work being debunked, these myths are still spread. To convince most people against vaccines that they are safe they need to understand how they work before they claim that they are ineffective. Many people often refuse to be vaccinated because they do not understand how they work. Therefore, when they hear anti-vaccination propaganda all they understand it that vaccinations are harmful. Understanding the defense mechanism, known as the immune system, will they will help one understand how vaccinations work. An infection is when a bacteria or virus invades the body and multiplies. The body defends itself from this infection with white blood cells or lymphocytes. The immune system work with a three-step process. First, the macrophages engulf and digest any germs present and leave behind parts of these germs called antigens. The finds these parts as a threat and stimulates a defense mechanism to attack them. This is where the B-cells come in to play. The B-cells produce antibodies to attack the antigens. Once the body has antibodies, it produces T-cells and memory B-cells to remember how to fight the disease in the future. Once this is done, the body is immune to this pathogen. A vaccine works by imitating an infection to develop immunity. It is a type of infection, however, it does not cause illness, only minor symptoms. A drawback is that it takes a couple of days to Shah 5 develop this immunity, therefore one can still become ill if they catch the pathogen while they are still developing immunity. Another misunderstood aspect of vaccinations is that they require more than one dose for everyone or why people can still become ill after getting a vaccine. This is for multiple reasons. One reason is that the first dose does not provide enough protection to fight off the pathogen. Another reason is that the immunity can wear off. If the body does not need to produce specific antibodies then it will forget how to fight a specific disease over time to bring immune levels back to normal another dose is needed. This is why you need a booster for the diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis (DTaP) vaccine. For diseases like the flu, a vaccine is needed every year. This is because new strains change every year, so new antibodies are needed for the new strain of the virus (Vaccines: How They Work). Ergo, this knowledge would empower anyone who hears anti-vaccination propaganda to scrutinize any information they come across. When is the best time to get vaccinated? Now! The time is now to get vaccinated. One may wait until whenever they feel like to make an appointment, but pathogens lurk around every corner. The 3sooner one gets vaccinated, their immune system can get to work and the more likely they are to be safe. One should be enraged that thousands were inflicted due to alterative facts. Numerous people were inflicted because they bought into this propaganda and no one else should be next. Ergo, protection thorough inoculation! By looking at this from an unbiased perspective, one can formulate their own opinion on vaccinations and ultimately decide what is best for them and their child. Also, they will understand that they are better off with the minor symptoms that vaccines cause in comparison to the deadly symptoms that they would get if they were to catch it from another infected person. In addition, they have learned that all of the propaganda that they have head against vaccinations Shah 6 has been falsified and refuted the rest of the medical community. Now that they have a whole new perspective on vaccinations, this campaigns will conclude by telling the American people to get vaccinated! Shah 7 Works Cited Katz, Samuel L., Dawn Richardson. Issue: Should vaccinations be CQ Researchers 2000: Academic OneFile. Web. 2 Oct. 2016. Madsen, K.M. & Vestergaard, M. Drug-Safety (2004) 27: 831. doi:10.2165/00002018- 200427120-00001 Knopf, Alison. MMR vs. Autism: A False  The Brown University Child and Adolescent Behavior Letter 31. (2005): 1-2. Academic Search Premier. Web. 10 Sept. 2016. Stern, Alexandra Minna, and Markel Howard. The History Of Vaccines And Immunization: Familiar Patterns, New  Health Affairs 24.No.3 (2005): 611-21. Web. 10 Sept. 2016. Vaccines: How They  Bioinformatics for Vaccinology (n.d.): 73-112. CDC. CDC, Feb. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Surveillance and  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 10 Jan. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.