Mohammad 1 Esmaeel Mohammad Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Banning Cigarettes Cigarettes have been causing millions of death each year, people have argued for years if cigarettes should be banned or not. It may cause a problem if it got banned but it will also make the society a healthy place. According to Tony Newman who wrote why not prohibit that approximately 400,000 people die from smoking in the United States each year. Something deadly like that should not be sold in the markets. Even if the people who do not smoke should care about the topic because second hand smoke is really dangerous, even though some people may say that it is less harmful then smoking it still may cause heart disease, lung cancer and stroke. According to BeToobaccofree.gov that approximately 3,000 adults die each year from second hand smoke. To ban cigarettes in the community, organizations like SMOKEFREE NHS and ASH (Action on smoking & health) are the best way to make it possible. Since 2000 ASH have tried to end smoking and the disease such as lung cancer that has caused millions of people around the world. SMOKEFREE NHS is a health campaign that is supported by the public health in England. Parents who smoke in front of their children will lead in two ways either the children will have a breathing problem at a very young age or they will influence their children in smoking at a young age. Mike Vuolo who wrote Teens smoking influenced by older siblings, parents life long smoking has mentioned in his study that teenagers who smoke are influenced by their Mohammad 2 parents or siblings. Everyone knows that smoking kills whether the person is smoking or just from second hand smoke, so to ban cigarettes organizations are the most affective strategy for it. There are multiple ways to help people stop smoking like the nicotine gum. It has helped some people to quit smoking and some have tried it but it did not help them. Other people choose not to try it because they feel that it will not help them. University of South Florida has banned smoking cigarettes in campus, it is a great way to make the campus a healthy place and it should have helped some of the students to quit smoking. But students still smoke in campus because even though it is a smoke free campus cigarettes is legal so the students feel like they have their rights to smoke even though they are told not to. Banning cigarettes will help a lot of people but not all, some will still smoke just like the using of other illegal drugs like cocaine, the difference is that if it got illegal people would smoke in their homes and not in public so they would not harm other people. More than 800,000 people get arrested from marijuana yet the studies show that cigarettes is much more harmful than marijuana, so they should ban the leading killer (Newman). According to Kerry Close who wrote Russia Might Ban Cigarettes for Everyone Born After the Russian health ministry might ban the selling of cigarettes for the people who are born after 2014. Even though that is for the long run, but it is a great way to make the future generation not smoke. Kerry Close also included that experts have warned that the banning of cigarettes would lead to black market but the Health Ministry said that 300,000 to 400,000 Russian citizens die from smoking. Russia are making a big step to ban cigarettes for the future, what if every country did the same thing for the Mohammad 3 future, that is why people need to take action on this topic; millions of lives will be saved and the people would not have to worry on their loved ones whether they would quit smoking or not. SMOKEFREE NHS have said in their website that smoking is the biggest cause of death on England, they also mentioned that smoking could cause damage in sperm and testicular cancer. And for smoking while pregnant it could lead to premature birth and there is an increase of 25% of risk that the baby might die (SMOKEFREE NHS). What if everything stays the same and nothing changes, the smokers would be happy because they can smoke everyday and anywhere they want. But they would not be happy when their lives will be on the line just because of cigarettes. Parents would see their children killing themselves at the young age and they could do nothing about it, they may ground their children but as soon as the parents have their backs on their children they would smoke again because they are addicted to it. Parent would still smoke in front of their children not knowing that they are not just killing themselves but also their children from second hand smoke causing breathing problems like asthma. The biggest reason on why people do not quit smoking because they do not see the damages that have been taking place in their own body. Most of the people will quit when something happens to them like stroke, people would wait till they have their first strike and for some it is just too late for them because they would have lung cancer. Some may say that the tobacco industry is violating the human rights because they are killing millions of people. That is why ASH is investigating a possible way of holding the tobacco industry in responsible on millions of deaths under the human rights laws. Mohammad 4 The government cannot just ban cigarettes immediately, there are some steps need to be taken first. To ban cigarettes successfully people would need to join organizations like SMOKEFREE NHS and ASH, because with the help of them they could ban every public place from smoking whether it is on the bar or on the street. The people who still choose to smoke, they will only be smoking in their homes where they would not affect other people from second hand smoke. Which leads to the final step, which is to ban the selling of cigarettes, if one country does this, other countries would follow the same step. Even with the banning of cigarettes people will still smoke, but the difference is that no one will see someone smoke in public, people would walk in public and smell fresh air only, especially the people with breathing problem they will not have to worry about someone blowing smoke at their face. Millions of people are dying each year because of the cigarettes, everyone want an end to this, especially the organizations that are worried about the peoples health. The people should be joining the organizations, the more people joining the more power they will gain which will put and end on cigarettes and start saving lives. Some steps in the United States have been taking place to help the ban of cigarettes like University campuses are trying to help the students to quit by making a smoke free campus. Public places like restaurants and malls have banned smoking inside. To save the peoples lives and to make the society a healthy place cigarettes should be banned so the next generation would be a healthy one, lung cancer, strokes and heart problems wont be common. Mohammad 5 Work cited Aspa. Be Tobacco  Home Be Tobacco Free.gov. Department of Health and Human Services, 31 July 2012. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Close, Kerry. (2017, January 11). Russia Cigarette Ban: Could Apply to All Born After 2014. Retrieved April 16, 2017 Newman, Tony. Why not prohibit CNN (2009): Web. 24 Jan. 2017. ASH > Action on Smoking &  ASH Action on Smoking Health. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Smokefree NHS. (n.d.). Retrieved April 16, 2017, from https://www.nhs.uk/smokefree Vuolo, Mike. Study: smoking influenced by older siblings, lifelong smoking  Study: smoking influenced by older siblings, lifelong smoking habits - Purdue University. N.p., 5 Aug. 2013. Web. 30 Apr. 2017