Al Mamari 1 Waleed Al Mamari ENC 1102 Professor Penuliar 1 May 2017 Marijuana Should Not Be Legalized A person encounters difficult times and circumstances in the life and that leads him to find a way that can help him to pass the miserable situation that he is going through. There are physical, psychological, and spiritual ways can be used in order to deal with miserable situations that face you. In this case, people use different ways in order to stop being miserable and reduce feeling stress and anxiety. For instance, some people use to listen to music in order to feel better or they drink water (Marko, 2015). One weird way that is used by some people in order to feel better is using different kinds of drugs such as marijuana. Marijuana - also known as herb, weed, and ganja- is a mixture of dried flowers and leaves from hemp plant (NIH, 2015). As marijuana-users describe their experience with marijuana, once they inhale marijuana they immediately feel mellow, lazy, and relaxing (Bonsor, 2014). Therefore, marijuana does help people to feel better and this is a common fact. However, there are side effects for marijuana- short and long term effects- and it has effects on its user and the society. Moreover, it has more hazards than its benefits (Leaf Science, 2016). There are non-engaged people on this issue and they do not care about this matter because they have not used marijuana or they have never met with a marijuana-user in his family or society. However, everyone in the society should realize that using marijuana has been spreading dramatically and estimated 13% of Americans are marijuana-users and this percentage increases by 7% every ten years (Chen, 2016). In these Al Mamari 2 circumstances, everyone should start to care about this issue and get educated about the impacts of this phenomenon. Overall, in order to stop using marijuana, everyone should get involved and care about this issue because it is a phenomenon that has begun to spread in societies and then they can join the American Lung Association in order to help marijuana-users to stop using marijuana. There is a quote prevention is better than That means people should prevent themselves from falling into the causes of diseases because this is easier than finding the cure and the treatment. Personally, I think people should stop producing and trading marijuana productions with some exceptions such as the medical-marijuana. In this matter, people should take an action in order to stand against marijuana. Volunteering and joining non-profit associations can be an efficient action in order to help to reduce numbers of marijuana users. There are non-profit organizations that offer many opportunities and campaigns to ensure public health for societies. American Lung Association works to help people who used to smoke any types of cigarettes to stop smoking (Moassessi, 2012). This association has launched a number of programs and campaigns to give people the opportunity to volunteer. This association gives people the opportunity to be advocates, facilitators, or member of their different programs such as Lung Force, or Better Breathers Club. Therefore, this can empower people to take action and make difference in the society and fight marijuana. There are many people that do not have any idea about marijuana and how it can be useful and harmful at the same time. Marijuana is a mixture of dried leaves and flowers from the hemp plant. It has a complex of 400 chemicals that affect brain and body (Rayn, 2009). For instance, THC Tetrahydrocannabinol- is a chemical that works to affect the human nervous Al Mamari 3 system and the immune system in order to make the body feel relaxing (United, 2014). In addition, marijuana is addictive and it can open a gateway for other drugs (2014). Marijuana-user wastes money to buy it and wastes time because once he inhales marijuana he will be relaxing and he will not be able to do anything. There has been a conflict between whether marijuana must be legalized or not. In this case, using different types of social media can be the suitable way in order to educate the public. By using social media, it is possible to give detailed information about marijuana. However, the problem is that social media is very effective and has the ability to change minds. One social media platform can make marijuana seem beneficial while other platforms that have a different audience can make the substance which marijuana seem bad and harmful. Therefore, here I am talking about the trustful and credible social media that can give the real information. For example, produce a multimodal argument in website form can give visual and readable information about marijuana. I personally see that social media is the appropriate way to educate public about the marijuana and its effects. Another way to educate public is to share real stories about marijuana users and how they suffering. Each person in the society should care about this issue because it might face him/ her. A person would ask himself why I should care about marijuana and I have never tried it. Marijuana can be produced in different types such as cigarettes, sprays, evaporations and so on. In this case, each one should work to advise his family and people around him to keep them away from using all types of marijuana. Moreover, beside the financial cost of marijuana, it has more consequences even for the society. For example, marijuana users are exposing their beloved ones to the harms of hazardous chemicals and components of marijuana. In a statistical way, the number of marijuana user has been increasing in societies. There are 94 million marijuana-user Al Mamari 4 in the United States and this number is increasing by 7% percent each ten years (DrugFreeWorld, 2014). According to the previous statistic, I think that everyone should care about this issue because you might think it is your turn to try marijuana or maybe your son or friend think he should try marijuana because most people smoke marijuana. The point is we should stand together in order to stop using marijuana because it can destroy societies and families since the smoker is exposing his closest people to the hazards of marijuana. In this case, our duty as human-beings is to protect the society that we live in. If we think about the actions that we can take in order to stop using marijuana, we have different options that can work to stop trading marijuana. Personally, I think volunteering and nonprofit organizations can be good ways to stand against marijuana. First, how volunteering can help to reduce the number of marijuana- user? Let us think that we have a person who is addicted to marijuana. He can volunteer and show his experience with marijuana to the public and express his suffering with marijuana. This will help to make people feel the dangers of marijuana then they might feel afraid to smoke marijuana. Another action to reduce and stop using marijuana is to establish and join non-profit associations and organizations. Theses organizations offer help for marijuana users to stop using it. They offer lectures and courses that help to stop smoking marijuana and they provide doctors who examine marijuana users and help them to quit (American Lung Association). There are ten American Lung Association branches in Florida and they have annual programs to help people to avoid smoking marijuana. This is a non-profit organization that depends on donations and charity. Therefore, like this organization can take a good action in order to reduce the number of marijuana users in societies. Al Mamari 5 Overall, it may be said that the issue of legalizing marijuana has been discussed among people for a long time. If you are supporting legalizing marijuana what are the actions that you can take to legalize marijuana. On the other hand, if you are standing against marijuana what are your ways to stop marijuana in societies. Personally, I could recognize that marijuana is harmful to people and societies together. In this case, in order to stop society from producing and trading marijuana, there are three steps should be done. The first step is to educate the public about the issue of marijuana and how it can be harmful. The second step is to take care of your relatives and friends and give them the advice in order for them to be aware of the issue. The third step is making a difference and taking an action in the society by volunteering and taking opportunities to participate in non-profit organizations campaigns that aim to help marijuana smokers. Personally, I see that volunteering and nonprofit organizations are the most efficient ways that work to reduce marijuana distribution. Finally, the three steps would not work if the society does not come together and collaborate because collaboration is the main point that can push the society towards success. Al Mamari 6 Work Cited Page Abuse, National Institute on Drug. What is  N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Retrieved from https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/research-reports/marijuana/what-marijuana American Lung Association  Lung N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Retrieved from Bonsor, Kevin, and Nicholas Gerbis. How Marijuana  HowStuffWorks, 02 July 2001. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Retrieved from http://science.howstuffworks.com/marijuana3.htm Chen, Aria Hangyu. 1 in 8 US adults says they smoke marijuana, poll  Cable News Network, 08 Aug. 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Retrieved from http://www.cnn.com/2016/08/08/health/marijuana-use-doubles-gallup-poll/ Make change join the Lung Action  N.p., 06 Jan. 2015. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Retrieved from Marijuana Statistics - Cannabis Use Statistics - Drug-Free  for a Drug-Free N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Retrieved from Al Mamari 7 http://www.drugfreeworld.org/drugfacts/marijuana/international-statistics.html Marko, Katherine. 5 Ways Music Makes You  Alternative N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Retrieved from http://www.thealternativedaily.com/5-ways-music-makes-you-happy/ Medical Marijuana Composition; The Chemicals in Cannabis, THC,  Patients N.p., 02 Nov. 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Retrieved from https://unitedpatientsgroup.com/blog/2014/04/11/thc-thca-cbd-cbn-the-chemicals-in-cann Moassessi, Caroline, Online Trading Says, Eazysmart.com Says, and Country Life Praha Says. What Chemicals Are in Marijuana and Its Byproducts? - Medical Marijuana -  Should marijuana be a medical N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Retrieved from http://medicalmarijuana.procon.org/view.answers.php?questionID=000636 9 Side Effects of  N.p., 10 Feb. 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Retrieved from