Leon 1 Carlos Leon Ms. Collins ENC 1102-018 April 16, 2017 For Our Homeland Everyone comes from the same place- Earth. A watery rock floating through space hosting a vast collection of fragile life. Life, that by all accounts, exists due to the excellent conditions of Earth. Consider humans particularly, if the planet gets too hot, too cold, too radiated, too much water, too little water etc. we humans would die off. Not to mention our own limitations such as short lifespan, weak bodies, and constant need of food, humans are quite frankly surviving with everything stacked against them. Which is why it boggles the mind that these same weak humans are trying so hard to change the very balance that keeps them alive. As it stands we humans, in our constant global industrial expansion, have begun to dramatically destroy the environment that barely supports us. This phenonium is called climate change- the changes in temperature, precipitation, or wind patterns, among other effects, that occur over several decades or (EPA). Moreover, after a decade of new evidence confirming the reality of climate change we have somehow begun to regress. Recently, climate change has been reduced to a political talking point; making public opinion regarding climate change has become increasingly (Hamilton, 1). But, for now, consider climate change just for what it is- a phenonium. Climate change is quite simply any abnormally large change in climate over a long period of time. These large changes in climate are normal on Earth. The Earth undergoes a natural warming and cooling cycle this the well-established theory of climatic changes due Leon 2 to the variable solar (Schewarzacher, 1). The problem is that Milankovitch theory of climatic cannot be used to explain the current climate. Currently we are almost one degree Celsius above average global temperature (NASA Climate). While it might not seem like much, keep in mind that the global temperature was bobbing up and down with small variation until the 50s when it started increasing without stop (NASA Climate). However, most people are better acquainted with the steep rise in Carbon Dioxide (CO2). CO2 is important when considering climate change because it is a root cause. CO2 is a greenhouse gas which are of the gases whose absorption of solar radiation is responsible for the greenhouse (Dictionary.com)- and the greenhouse effect is the reason the earth can stay warm when compared to its neighboring planets. These gases trap in solar radiation by reflecting it back to land from the atmosphere. Because of this, the amount of CO2 can greatly affect how much reflection we get. Right now, we have so much CO2 that the global average temperature has risen as described above. Before the 1800s CO2 had been relatively flat line at about 280 parts per million for millennia (Solomon, Climate Change 2007: The Physical Science Basis). However, the current CO2 readings show we have 405.6 parts per million (NASA Climate). This drastic increase correlates strongly with the start of the industrial revolution which was the time when the burning of coal and subsequently the release of CO2 started. The comparison between the past and the present show a scary increase. An increase that 97% of all currently active publishing climate scientist agree is led by humans (NASA Climate). As humans expanded technologically during the industrial revolution a powerful source of fuel was needed. Solar, wind, geothermal, electric, hydroelectric, and biofuel had not been invented nor discovered, as such, fossil duels were the only obvious choice to lead the industrial revolution. Moreover, this very revolution is what ultimately lead to the discovery of alternative forms of Leon 3 energy and the tools used to study the climate today. Yet humans, knowing the problem and cause, have chosen to keep burning fossil fuels as part of daily life. Of course, it is natural to be detached form this issue. 405.6 CO2 parts per million is ultimately just a number and the scope of the issue encompasses all humans. And some might even go as far to say that the CO2 increase is good because it creates more food for plants. However, consider instead not climate change itself but what it can do. As global temperatures increase the ice in the north and south poles begins to melt. As of now, the polar ice caps are melting at a rate of 3.4mm per year (NASA Climate). Putting aside the destroyed animal habitats for polar bears and penguins, the more ice melts the bigger the ocean becomes. Putting aside the danger this poses to flat, sea-level places like for example Florida, the rise in heat and warmer oceans can create a much more tangible problem- a hurricane. In the approaching decades, we will start to see the averaged intensity of tropical cyclones to shift towards stronger storms, with intensity (Thomas R. Knutson, Tropical Cyclones and Climate Change). Here in Florida, the notion that more Katrina like hurricanes could make an appearance is a serious notion. Here in Tampa so close to the coast, a Katrina like hurricanes is an extremely serious notion. City-wide floods, power outages, destroyed homes and business, carved up roads, and causalities are far more tangible than a one degree Celsius increase in global temperature. On the other hand, someone who lives far more inland might still shrug their shoulders at the idea of more hurricanes. However, they are no safer than people on the coast. Weather patterns are changing globally. In places where droughts are common like the Southwest U.S, there will be more frequent and intense droughts (NASA Climate). The agricultural economy of the South will even decline in upcoming years in soil moisture and crop yield due to the droughts. On the other hand, places were rainstorms are common like the Northern U.S. will see changes in precipitation Leon 4 patterns. The distribution of rain will center more around spring and winter months along with a general rise in precipitation. (NASA Climate). Yet perhaps some people will look towards their modern house and wealth, and see security. To these people, it would behoove them to acknowledge the economic impacts of the effects of climate change. While the damages from hurricanes and rain, as well as the decreased production output of the agricultural sector in the U.S., is obvious they produced the least costly damages. The real threat lies in rising ocean level. Consider that most of the biggest cities in the world lie on the coast line. Consider that most of the money exchange in the world happens in cities. Consider what will happens when high tide reach downtown Tampa. Who will pay for it when the streets, sidewalks, old buildings, and new buildings begin to erode? Everyone will. Moreover, any occasion when the tide gets so high work needs to pause, money will be lost. In response to this some have propose setting up a wall to stop the tide, but this is temporary solution that will in all cases ultimately fail and must be costly. This is because the ocean will not stop rising and so too must the proposed walls keep being built. And every time the wall gets bigger, the dangers increases in potential destruction as well as how easily it could break do to human error or natural cause. For any solution to work effectively against climate change cooperation is needed. We need to stop putting so much CO2 in the atmosphere and stop destroying the trees and forests which take CO2 out of the atmosphere. This will mean putting in policies and laws preventing deforestation, or at the least demand more trees be planted for every one that was cut down. This will mean making gasoline/diesel cars more expensive and subsidizing electric cars to make them less expensive. This will mean funding colleges and research institutes to create practical alternate energy sources. But, for any of these ideas to happen, we need to convince the people who put in Leon 5 policies to do so. We need to contact our legislators, our representatives, our congressmen and tell them that we, as a society, want to keep the planet habitable for humans. We need to convince the current administration to not disregard climate change as hoax or fake news, but instead work together with other countries in order to secure a planet for all of us. It might very well be hard to change the mind of the people in power, but remember that this is a republic. If the people in power do not work for us, they do not work at all. And lastly, remember to help the people who fight for us when we cannot. The National Resource Defense Council and other grassroot groups are out there advocating in the name of people and need help to keep fighting the good fight. This is not about destroying corporations or hurting the economy, this is about staying alive as a species. Leon 6 Work Cited Schwarzacher, W. Milankovitch cycles and the measurement of  Terra Nova. Blackwell Publishing Ltd, 01 July 2007. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Hamilton, Lawrence C. Education, politics and opinions about climate change evidence for interaction  SpringerLink. Springer Netherlands, 14 Dec. 2010. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. IPCC Fourth Assessment Report  IPCC - Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Greenhouse  Dictionary.com. Dictionary.com, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Knutson, Thomas R., John L. McBride, Johnny Chan, Kerry Emanuel, Greg Holland, Chris Landsea, Isaac Held, James P. Kossin, A. K. Srivastava, and Masato Sugi. Tropical cyclones and climate  Nature News. Nature Publishing Group, 21 Feb. 2010. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Welcome to  NRDC. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Global Climate Change:  NASA Global Climate Change and Global Warming: Vital Signs of the Planet. Jet Propulsion Laboratory / National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 15 June 2008. Web. 14 Jan. 2015. <http://climate.nasa.gov/evidence/>.