Newcomb 1 Celeste Newcomb Erika Staiger ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Ending Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ Rights should be the equivalent to that of any other person. Although it may not be a constant reminder to some people in their daily lives, society still feels the need to define who deserves to be treated well and who does not. It is hard to define who exactly decides what is acceptable and what is not but those that choose to look at people beyond their external features are the ones that truly understand the fundamental definition of basic human rights. For example, the transgender community has not been given basic human rights to use the bathroom of their preferred gender. For those that have been properly educated about the transgender community, they need to help others understand more about what it means to be born transgender. This is a topic that needs to be cared about and given more attention because it would not only provide more peace in America but it would also lower the rates of suicide due to gender stereotyping which can destroy a sense of self and place in the world. If gender studies classes were made a requirement for graduation in universities then the amount of people that understood what it meant to be transgender would dramatically increase. Through gender studies education, the United States will be much more understanding and willing to change laws which restrict transgender people to use the bathroom of their preferred gender. Newcomb 2 Merriam Webster defines transgender as relating to, or being a person whose gender identity differs from the sex the person had or was identified as having at birth; especially : of, relating to, or being a person whose gender identity is opposite the sex the person had or was identified as having at (Transgender). According to the American Sociology Association, the word was never even published in articles until 2007. Many arguments have been developed regarding whether gender is a social construct in itself due to it being difficult to clearly define what makes a woman feminine and what makes a man masculine. Society decides that if you are rough and strong that you are more of a man and that if you are kind and polite that you are more of a woman, but is that really true (Schilt)? More and more celebrities have come out as transgender to share their story and become role models for youth and activists for LGBTQ rights. One social media star in particular, Gigi Gorgeous, is a transgender woman who has always been an active supporter. She describes her transition with an ABC News reporter as such, since I was young, I knew I was different. I knew I felt like a girl, but when I grew up, I went through phases, and I found makeup and thought I was just, you know, a homosexual at the time, but then you know, life kind of comes back at you. I met a few people along the road and I said, you know what I am transgender, it was kind of like a (Riegle). Many transgender people experience this moment in their adolescence and are faced with intense discrimination amongst their peers. In a biannual survey conducted by the Gay, Lesbian, and Straight Education Network which was completed by 7,261 LGBTQ high school and middle school students, they found that almost 90% of these youth have been either physically or verbally assaulted in school (Singh). Newcomb 3 In a study done by the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, a myriad of demographics and situations were studied to see how prevalent suicide occurred in certain groups. Forty-six percent of trans men and forty-two percent of trans woman commit suicide every year. These rates are higher in younger people (18-24) and in multi-racial trans people. Suicide is also higher in those people that are completely open to being trans, aka In a Quality of Life Research Report conducted by Emily Newfield, Stacey Hart, Suzanne Dibble and Lori Kohler; 376 transgender people reported having a significantly lower mental health quality of life compared to that of the general US population (Newfield). Transgender people constitute 0.3% of the United States population and are not given basic human rights to solve the prevalent social discrimination they receive on a daily basis (Haas). Many transgender people have found help though social workers which aid them through the use of queer theory which looks at the fact that there is more to a person than whether they are male or female. Sadly, many social workers that help transgender people face the same abuse that transgender people themselves get. Through their use of activism and education they have done so much work for the transgender community in making their voices heard. Through self-esteem and acceptance, more and more transgender people are coming out and being accepted. In helping transgender people be able to have the basic human right to use whichever gendered bathroom they identify with, a call to action must be made. In properly educating the country on what it means to be transgender, students at the university level should be given classes that teach these concepts. If the youth of out country know these basic gender studies concepts, this knowledge will be spread throughout the coming developing years of this nation. To make these gender studies classes a reality, a petition should be created which states that Newcomb 4 college students must take a gender studies class in order to graduate. With 100,000 signatures in thirty days, Congress will review the petition and deliver an official response in making the petition become law. Petitioning has the ability to enact real change and would do so much in ending gender stereotyping and transgender suicide. Although this is not an immediate response to passing a law which allows transgender people the right to use whichever bathroom they identify with, it is a beginning step towards this. Most of the hostility towards transgender people is based solely off of misconceptions and people being uninformed. The more education and equal opportunities, the better the outcome will be for quality of life of all people. Every person deserves freedom and equality and it is the duty of every American to continue to push these fundamental rights. Through gender studies education, the United States will be much more understanding and willing to change laws which restrict transgender people to use the bathroom of their preferred gender. If people take the time to educate themselves on what it truly means to be transgender, the amount of gender stereotyping would be severely lowered. Although they may not have been born accepting the gender they were given, they still should be offered the rights that all are born with. Regardless of gender, everyone should look past social constructs that seem to define people and focus more on individual, unique characteristics that make someone human. Suicide rates continue to grow among transgender youth and multi-racial people. Finally, creating a bill that passes which instigates gender studies classes as a graduation requirement will further create an educated society. Through education and acceptance, gender stereotyping can finally end in the United States. Newcomb 5 Works Cited Callahan, Rebecca. Bending Gender, Ending Gender: Theoretical Foundations for Social Work Practice with the Transgender Community. No. 1 ed. Vol. 54. N.p.: Oxford UP, 2009. JSTOR. Web. Haas, Ann P., Philip L. Rodgers, and Jody L. Herman. Drug-Related Suicide Attempts: Teens and Young  PsycEXTRA Dataset (n.d.): n. pag. Williams Institute. Web. <https:// williamsinstitute.law.ucla.edu/wp-content/uploads/AFSP-Williams-Suicide-Report- Final.pdf>. Newfield, Emily, Stacey Hart, Suzanne Dibble, and Lori Kohler. Female-to-Male Transgender Quality of  JSTOR. ITHAKA, n.d. Web. Riegle, Ashley, Jake Lefferman, and Alexa Valiente. YouTube Star Gigi Gorgeous on Her Evolving Identity as a Transgender  ABC News. ABC News Network, 14 Sept. 2016. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. <http://abcnews.go.com/Lifestyle/youtube-star-gigi-gorgeous- evolving-identity-transgender-woman/story?id=42096338>. Schilt, Kristen, Elroi Windsor, and Betsy Lucal. Teaching  Teaching Transgender. By Tre Wentling. No. 1 ed. Vol. 36. N.p.: American Sociological Association, n.d. 49-50. JSTOR. ITHAKA. Web. Newcomb 6 Singh, Anneliese A., and Ken Jackson. CHAPTER SEVENTEEN: Queer and Transgender Youth: Education and Liberation in Our  JSTOR. ITHAKA, n.d. Web.  Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. <https:// www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/transgender>.