Trent 1 Henry Trent Instructor Gill ENC 1102 4 April 2017 Death Penalty Capital punishment is the legal practice of killing another human being who was found guilty of a heinous crime he or she committed. It is more commonly known as the death penalty. In the United States it is the most severe punishment the court system can administer for a crime. Since it is such a severe punishment and there are alternatives such as life imprisonment, the death penalty is seldom used. For example, it is primarily used in cases of first degree murder, or in other words, when the murder is premeditated. Although capital punishment has been used by in the United States even before the founding of this country, its use has begun to lessen in recent years. The decreasing use has been attributed to an increasing societal perception that the death penalty is a barbaric, medieval, inhumane act. This is evidenced by the observation people have begun voting against its use. Although still legal on a federal level, many states no longer allow capital punishment. There are many grassroots organizations dedicated to putting an end to capital punishment at a federal level such as Amnesty International as well as the Democratic Party, in the United States. Both of these organizations oppose it because they believe it infringes on our most basic human right: the right to life. The first step to eradicating it in American society is education. For instance, the general public may not fully understand the misconceptions and probable illegality of the death penalty. The education of society should lead to public disapproval and eventual abolition of capital punishment in American society, through voting against its use. Trent 2 Throughout the world the use of the death penalty has steadily waned (Amnesty International). However, it remains prevalent in the United States. Although the Constitution of the United States entitles us to liberty and the pursuit of the death penalty continues to be legal. Federal crimes punishable by death include homicide, large scale drug trafficking, and espionage (Mallicoat). Much of the support that the death penalty has is due to misconceptions held by the average American. These misconceptions include the societal effects of the death penalty, such as the deterrent effect and its cost to taxpayers. Although, the death penalty is still legal for federal crimes, it is beginning to lose hold amongst many states because people have become more educated about capital punishment. The federal government gives states the right to choose whether or not to use the death penalty. With that choice, eighteen states have chosen to abolish its use within their borders (Mallicoat). Many who support the use of the death penalty do so because they assume it is an effective deterrent to heinous crimes. These supporters of capital punishment believe people would cognitively choose not to murder out of fear of the death penalty. However, Brian Frost, a published author in the field of criminal law, states that the death penalty has little if any effect in deterring people from committing murder (Frost 938). He counterarugues that the existence of the death penalty is the reason several murders are committed each year. This is due to criminals committing murder to in order to eliminate individuals who may testify against them or identify them in a police lineup. Additionally, many who oppose the death penalty believe the same level of deterrence can be established through life in prison without the possibility of parole. Another common misconception about the death penalty is that it is cheaper to put someone to death than it is to sentence them to to life in prison. However, in actuality it is far less expensive to keep someone in prison for a life sentence. This is made evident in an analysis of death Trent 3 penalty costs. Florida annually spends $51 million on death penalty cases, whereas if the state were to switch to a life without parole system it would lead to a savings of approximately $23 million (Date). The substantial financial costs associated with the death penalty are largely due to extensive trials and numerous appeals. Murder is the most horrendous crime in our society. Hypocritically, our own court system in the United States is also allowed to perform a premeditated murder in the form of the death penalty. Not only is the death penalty immoral and unconstitutional, it also infringes on our most basic human right: the right to life. The Democratic Party in the United States is an organization that continuously struggles to end the death penalty. As it says in their party platform application of the death penalty is arbitrary and (Democratic Platform). The Democratic Party sees it as unjust because goes against the eighth amendment of the Constitution, because the death penalty is seen as a form of cruel and unusual punishment. Another organization that opposes it is Amnesty International. Amnesty International is a Non-governmental organization with the goal of protecting human rights. As stated in their mission statement vision is of a world in which every person enjoys all of the human rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human (Amnesty International). The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) is a document that lists the most basic human rights that all governments should respect. One of which states that all people are entitled to life (UDHR). The United States is in violation of the human right to life as long as they continue to have and implement a legal death penalty. The death penalty is a long standing practice in the United States. However, many people and organizations have begun to strive for its abolition. However, in order to abolish it all must be educated about it. Once the general population has corrected the misconceptions that they Trent 4 have regarding the death penalty, they must stand together and work to put an end to capital punishment. This can be done many different ways, such as voting, writing to congressmen, or even making a donation. If enough people take a stand regarding abolishing capital punishment it could be accomplished. Through voting there are two ways the death penalty can be abolished, if offered on the ballot it can be voted against, or by electing someone who is willing to fight the battle to end the death penalty. Next, it can also be done by contacting the congressmen that represent you and push them to vote against capital punishment. Lasty, by simply donating to a human rights organization, like Amnesty International you can make a huge difference in the fight against capital punishment. The money donated to them goes to lobbyist, education, and exposing human rights abuses (Amnesty International). However, none of this can be done if the misconceptions regarding the death penalty continue to go unnoticed. Although capital punishment is inhumane there needs to be some form of punishment in place for those who commit atrocities, such as premeditated murder. A very popular and possible alternative is replacing capital punishment with life in prison without possibility of parole. As already stated, the deterrent factor, although small, is equal for both forms of punishment. In addition, it is also considerably cheaper to imprison someone for life rather than sentencing and carrying out the death penalty, as already stated above. Life in prison is also a better form of punishment for the United States because in abolishing the death penalty the U.S. would no longer be in violation of the UDHR. The death penalty is an antiquated, inhumane, ineffective, and barbaric practice. However, it is deeply rooted in the American justice system as well as American society. Although, much of the American society is in support of the death penalty, most do not know the facts regarding this issue. This leads too many misconceptions regarding the benefits of having a Trent 5 society where crimes are punishable by death. Also known to few, is that the death penalty could very well be unconstitutional, and it explicitly violates human rights. Ultimately, the abolition of the death penalty would lead to a fairer and more just America. This is due to the fact the country would no longer be breaking its own laws, under the eighth amendment, and no longer be breaking international law, under the UDHR. Trent 6 Works Cited Covey, Russell D. DEATH IN PRISON: THE RIGHT DEATH PENALTY  Georgia State Law Review 28.4 (2012): 1085-122. USF libraries . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Democratic Party Platform  Http://www.presidency.ucsb.edu. N.p., 21 July 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Date, S. V. . The High Price of Killing  Palm Beach Post. Palm Beach Post, 4 Jan. 2000. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Frost, Brian . Symposium on Current Death Penalty Issues: Capital Punishment and Deterrence: Conflicting  Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology 74 (1983): 972. USF libraries . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mallicoat, Stacy L. Capital  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): n. pag. USF Libraries . Web. 12 Apr. 2017. The United Nations Human Rights. Universal Declaration of Human  Ohcr.org. The United Nations, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Who We  Amnesty International. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.