Ringley 1 Cory Ringley Professor Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 9 April 2017 The Future of Weddings in America From the inclusion of same-sex marriages to the shows on HGTV catered directly to weddings, marriage has been in the news often. Despite marriage being a controversial topic for many years it was only in 2013 when the first state Massachusetts allowed same sex marriage. It was not until 2015 that the US Supreme Court ruled that state level bans on same sex marriage were unconstitutional. Media coverage and popular T.V. shows including Say Yes to the Dress, Bridezillas, and Four Weddings have helped shift the culture change around marriage. How those in America look at weddings today cannot be compared to how they did 10 or even 20 years ago. In regards to venue, weddings will move out of the church entirely in favor of destination weddings and rustic ceremonies due to changing economic ideals and the effect of cultural indoctrination. The willingness to spend big on weddings has continually changed what wedding ceremonies and subsequent receptions have looked like over the years. The article richer or poorer: wedding spending by Natalie Zmuda shows the change in spending habits in an interesting way. This article was published shortly after the beginning of a recession in America where many businesses and enterprises saw drastic decreases in income and profit. think any industry that is immune to this particular said Alison Adler Matz, publisher of Conde Brides, which recently conducted a survey of brides that found spending had risen 1% between 2006 and 2008. seeing overall people are still Ringley 2 spending on their Like any consumption, making smart, informed (para 2). The information then shows how over these two years there has been a change in where the money goes for a wedding, from decrease in spending on food, wedding dress, engagement rings and photographer, to a stark increase in costs of the ceremony location and reception area. The decline in economic prosperity during this time changed how money was allocated but not how much was spent. It is plausible to assume the decrease in overall revenue increased the costs for the ceremony and reception sites, thus brides had less money to spend on the extra frills of a wedding. These venue and reception costs changed how the wedding industry worked, leading brides to find venues outside of the church because it too expensive to get married in the church. However, this was in 2008 and was drastically different to what happened in 2010. In Knot Unveils 2010 Real Weddings Survey wedding spending change again. In 2010, than a third (31%) of brides said the economy affected their wedding budget a decrease from 34% in (para 8). Compared to the information in Natalie article where the cost of weddings did not decrease but the amount spent on many of the aspects dropped significantly, only two years later The Knot has less than a third of its 19000 brides claiming that economics did not determine how much they were willing to spend on their weddings. The shift from venues in the church to other venues was made and brides were so happy with their choice of venue that they no longer dreamed to get married in a church. So while economics may not have played a role in whether or not people got married, an article by Andrew Francis-Tan and Hugo M. Mialon look at the relationship between wedding expenses and marriage duration, to see if economics determined whether they stayed married. 2 displays population-weighted results of the Cox proportional hazard model predicting marriage (Francis-Tan 1922). This table has a lot of statistics from marriage age to financial Ringley 3 income to age difference and location. Through all of it the statistics had very similar numbers on staying married and divorcing. This article shows that while the increase of divorces due to debt caused by wedding expenses is high that marriage duration is not correlated positively or otherwise with the cost of the wedding (Francis-Tan 1927). No correlation here means that the more expensive weddings were not more or less likely to get divorced than the cheaper weddings. Knowing that expenses in the wedding do not negatively hinder the subsequent marriage allows brides to have the wedding that they have always dreamed of without fear. Cultural indoctrination has a profound impact on how prospective brides look at weddings. In the book The Wedding Complex, Elizabeth Freeman shows us just how ingrained weddings are to the American culture. 1989 and the time of this writing, at least thirty- five Hollywood films, seventeen made-for-television movies, and eight national theatrical productions have put a wedding at the center of their (1). The entertainment industry knows that fairytale romances sell and have convoluted the minds of young men and women for years to bolster profits. Wedding shows on TV as well as other television dramas show weddings in a vast array of venues. The significance is that once a young woman or potential bride sees a scene or setting on TV that is gorgeous she subconsciously make a note of that as a potential setting for her wedding. As part of a movie a mother finds out her son is gay, and tells him that he still has to get married because she needs a wedding, In Chrys book she uses this movie scene to tell a bigger story in response to what weddings mean for mothers. she tells us what a wedding means. It is about beauty and order and the desire to escape the real making it clear that the wedding is much more than a ritual. It is addictive, compulsory, a (177). This speaks to the vast array of emotions that are accompanied with big weddings. Brides and mothers from all across the US for ages have been planning their weddings Ringley 4 and preparing for their perfect fairytale futures for as long as they can remember. American culture romanticizes the idea of big which has led to a change in venue locations, from the chapel to many other places. However, if the costs of church weddings was lowered, the ingrained potential to have a church wedding could be insatiable to some brides and all they needed to make it happen was a lower cost differential. Paul Grime is a pastor that has urged his congregants to get married in the church. we consider how our wedding practices might best support our teaching on marriage, perhaps the time has come to urge those who are marrying to bring the ceremony back into the sanctuary so that all who are present might give their full attention to holy desire for husbands and (140). There is reason to believe that there could be a shift back to church weddings. However, at most this would be for churchgoers only, because the secular culture will not be urged by the advice of a pastor. Additionally, church weddings were the dreams of brides 20 years ago but today and going forward destination weddings will be. At last, weddings have seen a gradual decrease in church weddings through the years with no sign of stopping. Economics have made it more feasible to get married in luxurious areas other than the church. American culture has been portrayed through destination weddings and other various venues in television and movie weddings. Weddings will continue to be a large part of American culture, and a great opportunity to experience new types of venues besides the church. Works Cited Ringley 5 Francis-Tan, Andrew, and Hugo M. Mialon. diamond is and other fairytales: the relationship between wedding expenses and marriage  Economic Inquiry 53.4 (2015): 1919-1931. Academic OneFile. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Freeman, Elizabeth. The Wedding Complex. [Electronic Forms Of Belonging In Modern American Culture. n.p.: Durham: Duke University Press, 2002. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Grime, Paul J., and Kevin Hildebrand. Is it time for Wedding Silliness to  Concordia Theologican Quarterly 80.1-2 (2016): 137-40. ATLA Religion Database with ATLASerials. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Ingraham, Chrys. White Weddings. [Electronic Romancing Heterosexuality In Popular Culture. n.p.: New York: Routledge, 2008. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. The Knot, Inc. The Knot Unveils 2010 Real Weddings Survey  Business Wire (English) Feb. 0003 (2011): Regional Business News. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Zmuda, Natalie. FOR RICHER OR POORER: WEDDING SPENDING NOW; Average reception costs down, but bridal websites, TV shows seeing  Advertising Age 80.10 (2009): Academic OneFile. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.