Heiden 1 Connor Heiden Professor Campbell ENC 1102 May 4, 2017 and its Unethical Tactics The famous golden arches. most known symbol around the world. McDonalds is a multibillion dollar company. They are one of the leading fast-food chains not only nationwide but also worldwide. Their menus consist of a wide variety of foods. You can order chicken nuggets, milkshakes, cheeseburgers, coffee. The list goes on forever. Statistics show that is arguably the most well-known fast food chain in the world. In 2016, the chain not only had 14,155 restaurants in the United States, but a further 22,744 in international (Tucci) McDonalds is always looking for new ways to improve their business. They have updated the menus to feature new items and they have already started to dish out self-serving waiter desks that take your order without a human being present. the new day in age of fast food. McDonalds promotes these food items through strategically placed advertisements that most people see while watching their favorite TV show at home. However, McDonalds has a much darker side people are not really aware of it not only does it use their ads to promote unhealthy food items, it is also improperly treating their food livestock properly through inhumane and unethical ways. Now is the time we must come together and acknowledge these practices as real issues that need to be resolved. To begin, McDonalds is known worldwide for their golden arch symbol. what pairs everything together. Another iconic piece of is their famous chicken nuggets. Heiden 2 website claims tender, juicy chicken nuggets are made 100 white meat chicken and no artificial colors, flavors and now no artificial (Chicken). This may in fact be but a deep secret that they are trying to hide. has an issue with the way they treat their chicken livestock. According to McCruelty raised for McDonalds chicken McNuggets have been bred to grow so quickly they frequently become crippled under their own weight. Unable to without extreme pain, many die of dehydration when they reach water. Others die from heart attacks, organ failure, and other problems related to rapid growth. Overcrowding in the filthy factory farms also leads to severe skin and throat irritations, blindness, and deadly (McCruelty). The chickens experience a lot of unwarranted pain and torture. There are safer ways to euthanize these chickens. One form that McDonalds should look into is CAK. This company has also dubbed the way they treat their chicken than pink If you have not read about it before McDonalds also had a problem with their chicken nuggets being called McDonalds had a huge issue on their hands with this. When people refer to pink slime they are referring to mechanically separated chicken. This means pretty much that the whole chicken is grounded up. Yes, that includes the eyes, nose, feet, etc. and the meat comes out looking just like pink slime! According to Snopes separated poultry (MSP) is a paste-like and batter-like poultry product produced by forcing bones, with attached edible tissue, through a sieve or similar device under high pressure to separate bone from the edible tissue. (Skime) The meat is then tossed in ammonia to kill off all the bad bacteria. That sound safe to eat. We need to fix this! Secondly, McDonalds uses skewed advertisements to help promote product. According to website know you care about the food you eat. why we use ingredients like 100% beef patties with no preservatives, fillers, or additives. And we use a select variety of Heiden 3 crisp, quality apples such as gala and pink lady. Take a deep dive into what makes our food Take a look at the two pictured advertisements I have below. The rock N ad is trying to lure the younger crowd of rock stars by enticing them to rock out with French fries. This appeals to pathos. Ethos is viewed when they make you imagine that actually rocking out with French fries but in reality there really bad for you! In the second ad they are trying to lure you to buy a cheeseburger after watching the Olympics. They are appealing to the athletic crowd. These advertisements can be very tricky. They make their food look delicious but in fact very bad for you. According to Mercola, foods are high in sugars, grains, and factory farmed meats a recipe for chronic diseases, such as obesity, diabetes, and heart (Mercola). This is a recipe for disaster. These facts should be stated in their advertisements to not deceive people into eating their unhealthy food because it Lastly, we can take action by using CAK. CAK stands for controlled atmosphere killing. According to PETA removes oxygen from the atmosphere while they are still in their transport crates. The birds are not (i.e., asphyxiated); they die from lack of oxygen, or anoxia. During this process, the oxygen from the environment is removed and slowly replaced with a nonpoisonous gas that puts the birds to sleep while they are still in their transport *(PETA) the benefits to doing CAK over other ways include the fact that the bird feel any pain. The chicken comes out fresh and uncontaminated with bacteria, and less strenuous on the workers who have to kill the chickens through other means. You really need to grasp how these birds are killed when using something other than CAK. These birds are slaughtered by workers pretty much in The birds are vomiting, pooping, urinating, shedding, and writhing in pain while the workers do this. This not only is horrible for Heiden 4 the bird but can also cause injury to the employees that have to ultimately do it. When using CAK all those steps are skipped. There is no interaction between live bird and human. The birds are dead and the workers retrieve them for food production. This can solve issue about mistreating their food livestock. In conclusion, we must take action against McDonalds. That is the main goal. has done very well in changing their ways in the past. According to Mercola, has Removing artificial preservatives from items on the menu including Chicken McNuggets, omelets and scrambled eggs. They have started removing high-fructose corn syrup (HFCS) from the buns and have started serving chicken not treated with antibiotics important to human (Mercola). There has been progress with McDonalds before we just need to continue it by following up with the CAK training for employees and the proper rebranding of their unhealthy fast food that is labeled in their advertisements. time to make a change! Heiden 5 Works Cited Chicken Chicken Nuggets N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Latest Food  Mercola.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Our Variety of Ingredients: Quality Foods N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Pink Slime and Mechanically Separated  Snopes.com. N.p., 23 Oct. 2016. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. The Case for Controlled-Atmosphere  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Tucci, Courtney. Topic:  Www.statista.com. N.p., 22 July 2014. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. WORSE THAN PINK SLIME! Hidden-Camera Exposes Nasty Secret Behind Chicken  N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Heiden 6 Heiden 7