Wang, 1 Yiqing Wang Kristen Collins ENC 1102 30 April 2017 The High Cost of Speeding People try to justify driving at high speeds. They may be in a hurry to get somewhere, not paying attention to their driving, or think that speeding is not that serious. They may think the worst that can happen is a ticket. However, speeding has been one of the leading causes of car-related deaths in America, costing 9,557 lives in 2015 alone (Insurance Institute for Highway Safety). In addition to fatalities, such a car accident can also result in lifelong injuries, monetary loss, and property damage. This is a terrible price to pay, especially since all of this is completely preventable, simply by reducing speed to prevent accidents. When people get their driving permit, they are made aware of the legal regulations on how fast they can drive. This speed limit is clearly posted on road signs and indicates the maximum speed, provided that there are good road conditions (El-Urfali). The statewide maximums are set by each state. The highest speed is allowed on interstates--in Florida, it is 70 mph (El-Urfali). There are lower speeds set for highways and residential areas. The lowest speed is usually near school zones during specified pickup and drop off times (El-Urfali). Wang, 2 There is a correlation between the rate of speed and the ability to control a vehicle. The faster a car is moving, the more difficult it is to stop or slow down (Roads and Traffic Authority of NSW). Additionally, when someone encounters a hazard in the road, they need to recognize it as a danger and quickly act accordingly, which becomes more difficult to do at a higher speed (Roads and Traffic Authority of NSW). This makes sense then why there are lower speed limits in areas where drivers will encounter more pedestrians, change directions more frequently, deal with limited visibility, and, in general, need a greater amount of control. Conversely, on an interstate, where all the cars are moving in one direction with few turns or lane changes, the allowed speed is much higher. Logically, one could pose the theory that speeding happens most often on roads where the speed limit is higher to begin with. However, this is not the case. 47% of people speed when on minor roads--where the speed limit is less than 50mph-- than on any other road type (Upton 2016). This is also why 32% of speed related fatalities happened there as well (Insurance Institute for Highway Safety). There is a belief that speeding is not so serious and the most that could happen is getting caught. Even if legal enforcement was the only consequence, there still would be a tremendous personal and societal cost. A single speeding ticket can range in price from $150 to over $1,000 (Upton 2016). Receiving a speeding ticket also can put points on a license, raise insurance rates, or even cause the license to be Wang, 3 suspended entirely (Upton 2016). Enforcing speed limits has its own price as well. It is considered that at least 15% of the population will need to be regularly reminded of a safe driving speed, some of that through the aforementioned road signs and some through law enforcement (El-Urfali). Society faces a cost of $76,000 for each minute a person gains by speeding (Upton 2016). The loss of human life is obviously the highest cost of speeding. Since 2005, speeding has been responsible for at least a quarter of all crash-related deaths in America- -occasionally accounting for nearly a third (Insurance Institute for Highway Safety). Between 2006 and 2015, there were over 108,000 deaths--or about the population of Clearwater, Florida (Insurance Institute for Highway Safety). That is a huge number of families and friends whose lives will never be the same again as they go on without their loved one. Injuries are something else to take into consideration. According to the CDC, for every one fatality in a car accident, there are eight people injured (Centers for Disease Control 2016). Even at lower speeds, there can still be considerable damage, depending on how and what the vehicle hits. These injuries can be made worse because when people speed, they often engage in other risky behavior such as not wearing their seatbelt (Upton 2016). Some of the most common car injuries are head injuries, which can range in severity from a concussion to more serious brain damage, and neck injuries from whiplash The Most Common Car Accident ). Additionally, cuts and scrapes Wang, 4 can result from airbags deploying, from loose items in the car, or from colliding with glass or another part of the car. Since these injuries can be so severe, they can have a lasting effect on the life, requiring multiple hospital stays, physical therapy and other health and lifestyle modifications. Not only can speeding drastically affect a crash quality of life physically, having these crash related injuries will also set him or her back financially. In 2012, these injuries cost Americans $18 billion for lifetime medical care, with 75% of the money being spent before the first year and a half after an accident (Centers for Disease Control 2016). Couple this with the over a million days that were spent in the hospital each year due to crash injuries, and it is easy to see where mounting medical bills can become an even greater problem. The first step in solving this problem is personally recognizing that speeding is a serious issue. When drivers recognize this as a safety hazard that could potentially kill or injure someone, they will be less likely to engage in this behavior. Leaving for work or school a few minutes earlier or arriving a few minutes later might not seem such a terrible thing when faced with the potential permanent consequences of a speeding accident. It is worth remembering too that a speeding violation is not just driving the car at an excessive speed, but also driving at a speed that is incorrect for the road conditions. Drivers should be aware of things like the weather, twisty roads with limited visibility, or heavily pedestrian areas and adjust their speed accordingly. Drivers should also keep in Wang, 5 mind other risk factors that go along with speeding, such as not wearing a seatbelt or driving while under the influence, in order to make sure that they are being as safe as they can be (Upton 2016). On a broader level, the public can help raise awareness of these damaging effects of speeding throughout society through supporting safety campaigns. Some states, like Florida, may also have a way that individuals can suggest a change of speed limit, if one believes that a road in general might be too fast for current conditions (El-Urfali). Closer to home, it may help to be proactive in reminding friends and family to drive safer. Young men may especially benefit from reminders of the seriousness and danger of speeding since men between the ages of 16 and 25 are more likely to be involved in a related incident than any other age group (Upton 2016). Speeding is a devastating issue that impacts thousands of people each year--those killed in crashes, those injured in them, and those who are affected by the loss. There is hope, however. The number of fatal accidents caused by speeding has been decreasing steadily from 32% in 2006 to 27% in 2015 (Insurance Institute for Highway Safety). However, since each and every one of these deaths are preventable, drivers should maintain appropriate speeds when operating a vehicle. Wang, 6 Works Cited El-Urfali, Alan. Frequently Asked Questions - Speed  Florida Department of Transportation. Florida Department of Transportation, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <http://www.fdot.gov/traffic/FAQs/SpeedLimitFAQ.shtm>. Insurance Institute for Highway Safety. General statistics- Fatality  Insurance Institute for Highway Safety. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <http://www.iihs.org/iihs/topics/t/general-statistics/fatalityfacts/overview-of- fatality-facts>. Motor Vehicle Crash  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 07 Oct. 2014. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <https://www.cdc.gov/vitalsigns/crash-injuries/index.html>. Australia. Roads and Traffic Authority of New South Wales. Speeding - Did you know? . N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. The Most Common Car Accident  All-About-Car-Accidents.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <http://www.all-about-car-accidents.com/car-accident- injuries.html#>. Upton, Weiland. Dangers of Speeding While Driving  Weiland Upton. N.p., 23 June 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <http://www.cnrlawyers.com/news/dangers-of-speeding-while-driving/>.