Smoking Ban and Restrictions in Public Places in the US Long ago smoking was not an issue in any public venue in the United States of America. Until majority of the population realized that smokers are not only harming themselves but they are also causing noticeable damages to the environment around them including none smokers. However, Smoke Free policies were forced upon different and many places after that. By 1900 selling cigarettes in different states such as Washington, Iowa, Tennessee and North Dakota was banned, around 1920, eleven fellow states have also forced the ban of selling cigarettes, the U.S. purpose of banning selling cigarettes was due to health concerns. Back in the year of 1900, after banning of selling cigarettes has been seriously applied, an individual from the state of Tennessee has approached the Supreme Court regarding the prohibition of smoking in public places, as it was not pleasant for many smokers in the U.S. the Supreme Court wrote There are many whose tobacco has been mixed with opium or some other drug, and whose wrapper has been saturated in a solution of  The CDC known as the Center of Disease Control and Prevention stated that Tobacco smoke contains more than 7,000 chemicals, including hundreds that are toxic and about 70 that can cause cancer. Smokers are aware of the consequences of smoking in which why it is a very unpleasant fact that people are still smoking. As science and medical fields of studies showed a remarkable development over the years, they were able to prove that smoking causes chronic damage to many body parts leading them to fail in functioning, resulting in death or severe health issues. A General report went viral and became historical for clarifying that even if many people do not smoke they are still exposed to the dangers of smoking, it made a very powerful add to the opinion regarding smoking. New York City was one of several states of our current era to make very strict rules and regulations regarding smoking in public areas such as parks, and beaches. The state has also applied a regulation regarding the purchase of cigarettes allowing people only of 21 years old and above to have the ability to purchase a pack of cigarettes, also to mention that cigarettes are more expensive in New York City when comparing to other states, the rules and regulations towards smoking have been crystal clear that the state is willing to do whatever it takes in order to make people aware that smoking has no advantage at all. The Government of the United States of America has made significant decisions to protect and preserve the rights of its citizens to breathe healthy. As people realized that the government was showing a big amount of support regarding the issue of smoking in public areas, many organizations were created and continue to grow powerful. A very known organization was the Americans for rights, had their senior program manager state social norms are changing. When people go to work they expect to breathe smoke free air. People are understanding the dangers of second-hand meaning that people are now aware of how smoking is not only a risky matter regarding the health, yet it sets unacceptable behavior for children to seem as an admissible form of behavior. As people continue to smoke many states have been bothered with the harm cigarettes have made in the environment, as cigarette but are not biodegradable, meaning that they are not capable of being decomposed by bacteria as they are also unsightly. Research has proved that cigarette butts are the most common littered item in the world, the city of San Francisco has stated that the estimated cost of cleaning cigarette waste is $11 million per year, with such a big number the state can be able to provide so many benefits for its residents rather than spend it on cleaning cigarettes. A study published back in April 2011, called Issue of Tobacco Control, stated that the estimated cost of tobacco product litter . Removal ranges from $3 million to $16 million for major cities and municipalities. As Michael Tynan a public health analyst said percentage of the U.S. population that is protected increased from 2.72% in 2000 to 47.8% in 2010 and 49.6% in 2015. Regional disparities remain in the proportions of state populations covered by state or local comprehensive smoke-free policies, as no state in the southeast has a state comprehensive (1). These figures actually state the actions on how they are trying to save people from things that they even notice until something bad happens. The governments support along with many other organizations bravery are on a mission to promote the prohibition of smoking. In conclusion smoke free policies are very beneficial for people, because there is not a single evidence that has been stated to be an advantage of smoking. As people continue to practice their daily activities with the hope of having smoke free areas, the USA shows a 50 % of its residents living in a jurisdiction with all public and workplaces being smoke free, including bars and restaurants. Due to the constant support shown from different organizations as well as the government, claims against smoking in public areas continue to increase. Different statistics have shown that there are approximately 7,300 lung cancer deaths per year and approximately 36,000 heart disease deaths per year, that have affected non-smokers. The facts and studies related the topic of smoking in public spaces has been proven in a more powerful way each year. Opinions on second hand smoking have not changed and appear to not change whatever the smokers and their sellers might say. Although the government has addressed the matter of smoking and many people came to an agreement that smoking should be abolished, yet a population of smokers seem to belittle the statistics and studies, regardless of the small number of people that take this matter into consideration, it still makes a difference. Work Cited World health organization. Smoke-free  World health organization. N.p., 31 May 2007 Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Tynan, Michael. State Smoke-Free Laws for Worksites, Restaurants, and Bars --- United States, 2000--2010. Rep. 15th ed. Vol. 60. USA: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2011. Print. 472-475. Thomson, G., Wilson, N., Collins, D., & Edwards, R. (2015). Attitudes to smoke-free outdoor regulations in the USA and Canada: A review of 89 surveys. Tobacco Control, 25(5), 506-516.14 Sep 2017. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The Health Consequences of Years of Progress: A Report of the Surgeon General. Atlanta, GA: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health, 2014. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Trex, Ethan. 7 Historical Bans on  Mental Floss. N.p., 26 Aug. 2015. Web. 01 May 2017. Secondhand Smoke (SHS)  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 21 Feb. 2017. Web. 01 May 2017. Cigarette Butt  Americans for none rights. N.p., 24 Aug. 2016. Web. 01 May 2017.