Kathryn Rose ENC 1102 Harley Campbell 05 May 2017 Project 3 Fnal Draft In the public school system, the main form of sex education is an abstinence-centered approach that focuses on demonizing sex and encourages young people to avoid it altogether. no surprise that young people disproportionately experience unplanned pregnancies and sexually transmitted infections (STIs) more than any age group in America. Advocates For Youth (AFY) is a non-profit organization that advocates for comprehensive sex education within public schools across America. This comprehensive approach teaches how to use contraceptives, educates thoroughly on STIs, and provides factual, medically accurate information In order to combat high teen pregnancy rates and STIs the public must rally for comprehensive sex education within the public school system by lobbying, calling local and state representatives, and taking charge of their own education. In America, Abstinence only education is the main form of sexual health information that young people receive. According to Guttmatcher Institute, thirty-seven states require that information on abstinence be provided, twenty-six mandate that it be stressed, and nineteen outright promote sex within a marital setting and HIV This widespread education is a reflection of a religious agenda within our government, a clear violation of first amendment rights. During George W. presidency, programs received more than $100 million a year directly in federal Bill Restores 250 million in Rose 1 Abstinence Education This push of Christian values not only violates constitutional rights, but also has been proven to be ineffective. Dr. Douglas Kirby, in Sexuality Research and Social policy, conducted a study on the impact abstinence based education have on adolescents. It was concluded that abstinence programs were ineffective and did not delay the initiation of sex. On the other hand, research did show strong evidence that comprehensive sex education has a positive effect on young sexual behavior. This type of honest sexual health information even delayed the age of sexual debut and increased the usage of condoms and contraceptives among teens (Douglas). Abstinence only education just ineffective, dangerous; In America, youth ages fifteen to twenty-four collectively represent twenty-five percent of the sexually active population, but makeup fifty percent of the population affected by STIs. In 2011, twenty-four percent of new HIV diagnoses were young people, with some as young as thirteen years old Policies On Sex Education In These alarming statistics demonstrate desperate need for an approach to sex education that explains how to effectively use condoms and contraceptives, without an agenda. Even more so, lack of sexual health information only increase the risk of STIs, it also adds to high teen pregnancy rates. According to Choices Pregnancy Care Center, eighty-two percent of teen pregnancies are unintended and Statistics On Teenage If young people had access to comprehensive sexual health information they could possibly avoid pregnancy. Still, some have to face this new reality, which has life altering affects. Teen mothers are less likely to finish high school and even more likely to depend on welfare programs. In addition, their children are more likely to go to jail, be unemployed, have mental health issues, and even end up being a teen parent themselves. Of those eighty-two percent of teen girls, thirty- Rose 2 five percent choose to have an abortion and Statistics On Teenage This heartbreaking decision could potentially be avoided if young people had access to comprehensive sex education. Many youth realize the gravity of this situation. In fact, AFY states that eighty-eight percent of young people agree that comprehensive sex education needs to be implemented (Advocates For Youth). However, not just youth. In a research study conducted in North Carolina, eighty-nine percent of parents supported comprehensive sex education (Sarles). With youth and parents on board, the only question left to ask is, The Advocates for Youth website provides several profiles, capturing how individuals took charge and got involved within their communities. One testimonial centers on Briana, a self proclaimed feminist and masters of social work student at Smith College. In her testimonial, Briana describes her journey of increasing her awareness of the sociological paradigms around us. Brianna states, order to fight gender-based I must also fight against poverty, racism, inadequate sex education, limited access to contraception/safe sex supplies, and discrimination and harassment toward members of the LGBTQ+ Brianna became an activist by getting involved with advocacy groups at her campus. She got involved with several campaigns and met with people fighting against sexual assault on campus. She believes that and activism, especially in the area of sexual health, right and education, can provide a healthier, happier future for us Another testimonial centers on Vix, an organizational leadership major at Tennessee Tech. In high school, Vix was not taught comprehensive sexuality. She decided to take matters into her own hands by joining FYI, a high school club determined on learning and spreading Rose 3 comprehensive sexual health information. FYI also participated in advocacy events in their community that helped educate those around. By taking charge of her own sexual health education Vix was able to ignite a and love for reproductive justice and comprehensive sexuality Just like Brianna and Vix, the public can make profound change as well. The Advocates For Youth website has a plethora of resources available as well as instructions on how to contact government officials and lobby for comprehensive sex education. They also offer advocacy kits that details instructions for working with teens, advocating for sexual health, involving religious communities, and responding to critique In addition, AFY includes tips on how to your activism and organizing Within this section they describe how to lobby, build strong coalitions, and even provide sample letters to congress members For Truly, the possibility for change is endless. By taking on the responsibility of advocating for sex education the public will be able to enrich the lives of everyone. Rallying for comprehensive sex education and educating others aids in the prevention of STIs and unplanned pregnancies. Once young people understand the severity of the situation at hand, they can form organizations, like FYI, to educate themselves and others around them on this pressing issue. They can truly take this issue into their own hands and spread a message of honesty, understanding, and responsibility. Moreover, having a grasp on sexual health information opens doors to advocate against domestic violence, sexual assault, and gender-based discrimination. All in all, it only takes one person to create change. Understanding the dangers of abstinence-only education and advocating for comprehensive sexual health information builds the framework that has the possibility for profound impact on the community. However, self- Rose 4 education is not enough. By contacting local and state representatives, creating and joining organizations within the community, and lobbying for policy change the public will be able to implement lasting programs that positively impact adolescents, by aiding in the prevention of STIs and unplanned pregnancies. Rose 5 Works Cited: Advocatesforyouth.org. Advocates for youth, Web. 18 April. 2017. Blackman, Samantha Scotti, Emily Heller, and Kate. Policies on Sex Education in State Policies on Sex Education in Schools, www.ncsl.org/research/health/state-policies-on-sex-education-in-schools.aspx/. Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. and Statistics about Teenage Choices Pregnancy, www.choicespregnancy.org/facts-and-statistics-about-teenage-abortion. Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. Kirby, Douglas B. Impact of Abstinence and Comprehensive Sex and STD/HIV education Programs on Adolescent Sexual Sexuality Research and Social Policy, vol. 5, no. 3, 2008, pp. doi:10.1525/srsp.2008.5.3.18. Sarles, R.m. Opinion of Sexuality Education in a State with Mandated Abstinence Education: Does Policy Match Parental Journal of Adolescent Health, vol. 39, 2008, pp. doi:10.1016/s0084-3970(08)70639-x. and HIV Guttmacher Institute, 18 April. 2017, www.guttmacher.org/state- policy/explore/sex-and-hiv-education. Rose 6