Rataj 1 Richard Rataj Professor Erika Staiger English 1102 16 April 2017 Fishing But Not Catching Fishing stocks across the world are being exploited and depleted to the point of no return. Overfishing has been a major cause for this development, and is ultimately causing many people, in both developed and undeveloped regions to go without a vital resource to daily life. Both commercial and recreational fishing impacts the viability of fishing reserves, and by being aware of the issue, and how it can be addressed, the ability to stop the potential for destruction can be reached. Practices that can be adopted on a personal level can help bring an impact to the issue for the better, and awareness and being educated is the first step to solving the problem. Commercial fishing leads to a large decrease in fish in the open ocean, and using practices that are not sustainable for the growth of fish stocks, these fish have decreased in numbers and in size. Recreational fishing has led to local stocks of fish being depleted due to the fact that recreational fishing occurs in areas where fish are often the most vulnerable. By being disturbed at the even the most local areas, fishing reserves decrease, and the ability to reproduce and grow is severely limited. By practicing proper recreational fishing habits and trying to eat fish that come from companies practicing sustainable fishing practices, these effects can be reduced. On an individual basis, USF students can educate themselves on all the regulations that exist regarding recreational fishing, and practice following these rules. USF students can educate others, and support organizations such as Greenpeace in order to ensure that fishing stocks will be protected. Rataj 2 Overfishing is often looked over by individuals, as they assume that it does not impact them. However, this looks over the issues that arise from overfishing indirectly, such as a growth in algae blooms or the dying off of other species that rely on fish. These issues that arise spread into other areas not normally related to overfishing, such as growth of algae and the loss of coral reefs, which then has a larger impact on other factors such as tourism and economic growth as well as a broader aspect of causing the natural beauty of the environment to be lost. This development is discussed by Roth, a researcher for the Leibniz Center for Tropical Marine Ecology, where lack of can lead to pronounced changes in the benthic community with shifts to algal dominated (Roth 62-63). In many coastal communities, this rise in algae blooms leads to a general negative outlook to the area, and may cause a decline in the overall general happiness of the community. Furthermore, many people assume that recreational fishing will have no impact on the general fishing stock populations, however this is untrue as recreational fishing often impacts fish stocks by decreasing the populations during spawning and mating seasons. Felicia Coleman, a researcher at Florida State University in the Department of Biological Science, discusses why recreational fishing has more of an impact, as truncates size and age structures, reduces biomass, and alters community (Coleman). Moreover, the impacts of overfishing recreationally are hard to see immediately, and therefore go largely ignored. Steven Cooke, a biologist specializing in marine ecology for the American Institute of Biological sciences discusses the problem of how people view the depletion of recreational fishing stocks, where impact of recreational fishing is typically addressed by curing symptoms rather than by addressing underlying (Cooke 858 Role of Recreational Fishing in Global Fish One person catching too large or too small of a fish during the wrong time of the year Rataj 3 may not seem to have any significant impact, but when this is compounded by hundreds of people doing this over the course of a season in a very specific area, this problem is exacerbated to the point where future growth potential of a species is affected negatively. Cooke further delved into this concept in another journal, stating is also important to increase our understanding of the global participation and harvest in recreational (Cooke recreational and commercial 103). The information needs to be spread in order to limit the impact everywhere, not just in few, select localities. Recreational fishing may be more of an issue than commercial fishing because recreational fishing impacts a more local community, and the fish impacted are often keystone species, or those species that are needed for the functioning of an ecosystem. Species depletion may occur faster due to the fact that certain species are favored in recreational fishing, and during certain seasons, these species are most vulnerable as large numbers can be found in one place. Furthermore, during spawning and mating seasons, the future generations of the species can be inhibited on a larger scale compared to large scale, commercial fishing. Altieri, a staff scientist for the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute argues that recreational fishing targets fish that may cause a more destructive cascade if they are to disappear. Due to the fish that are often caught and sought after with regards to recreational fishing effects of recreational activities are predicted to be particularly acute because they selectively target top-level predators and are more likely to deplete species to a greater degree and with higher (Altieri 1408). By practicing sustainable recreational fishing practices, these effects can be greatly reduced. Each and every individual can help to limit to potential destruction of fishing stocks. There are many intricacies that impact the breeding and growth of many fish species. These Rataj 4 intricacies may be invisible to humans, or seem to not have an impact, however they may cause large differences in fish ability to mate and grow. Many families are bonded over fishing trips, many families use certain fish based dishes for special dishes, and many communities rely on the economic benefits that the fish cause, both directly and indirectly. USF students can help keep these traditions thriving, and can be an impactful force on allowing future generations to take part in what many have enjoyed before. If action is not taken to help preserve these fishing stocks, there may be no more fishing stocks to preserve. One person can make an impact just by being aware, and by bringing the outlook to protect and preserve, the idea can spread over time, and eventually, future generations will not have to face the consequences of a generation who exploited and destroyed such a vital resource. By spreading the word, and by educating others, the impact can be greatly reduced. To compliment this, USF students can donate to large organizations such as Greenpeace, which will allow them to further spread the word on a much larger scale. Supporting Greenpeace will allow USF students to take part in both a local and global impact on recreational overfishing, ensuring a pastime stretching back centuries will exist for many more to come. Rataj 5 Works Cited Altieri, Andrew H., Mark D. Bertness, Tyler C. Coverdale, Nicholas C. Herrmann, and Christine Angelini. A trophic cascade triggers collapse of a salt-marsh ecosystem with intensive recreational  Ecology 93.6 (2012): 1402-410. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Coleman, F. C. The Impact of United States Recreational Fisheries on Marine Fish  Science 305.5692 (2004): 1958-960. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Cooke, Steven J., and Ian G. Cowx. Contrasting recreational and commercial fishing: Searching for common issues to promote unified conservation of fisheries resources and aquatic  Biological Conservation 128.1 (2006): 93-108. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Cooke, Steven J., and Ian G. Cowx. The Role of Recreational Fishing in Global Fish  BioScience 54.9 (2004): 857-59. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Roth, F., I. Stuhldreier, C. and C. Wild. Effects of simulated overfishing on the succession of benthic algae and invertebrates in an upwelling- influenced coral reef of Pacific Costa  Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 468 (2015): 55-66. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.