Martins 1 Jozua Martins Professor DeCarion Enc 1102 2 2/26/2017 Captivating the Nation According to recent studies conducted by the National Healthcare Decisions Day organization, 42% of Americans have had a friend or relative who suffers from a terminal illness (NHDD). New treatments and medicines are being developed daily, but these remedies are frequently stagnated in the clinical trial stage of testing by the United States Food and Drug Administration (F.D.A.) for a wide variety of reasons. By shutting down these new treatments, the F.D.A. often terminates the last hopes that dying patients have available. Over the past several years a movement supporting the rights of the terminally ill has been coined The Right to Try, with one of the main supporters being The Goldwater Institute. To gain public support for The Right to Try movement the Institute could captivate the hearts and minds of audiences nationwide in several different major campaigns, which include a website and a published book, both which used rhetorical appeals in an innovative way. Since its founding, the Institute used many different images in their campaigns for The Right to Try, some became more iconic to the public than others. To inform the community about The Right to Try movement by utilizing digital media, The Goldwater Institute designed a website that held all the information about the cause readily available in one place. On the homepage of this website there is an image depicting a young, blonde, boy, in a Fire Fighter Uniform, sitting on the inside of a firetruck. Along with the image is a caption that reads McLinn is 5 years old. He wants to grow up and save lives. We need your help to save This real-life story gives credibility, or ethos, to the cause that is being fought by the Goldwater Institute since it proves that there are undoubtedly many more people affected by this issue, justifying that this is an actual, relevant issue within this nation. As the audience continues Martins 2 to reflect on the image, it is sure that the young boy, coupled with the statement from the Institute asking for help, will affect their appeal to emotion, or pathos. This emotional appeals serves to connect the reader to the tale of youth struggling with terminal diseases by telling a personal story that anyone can relate to. As the audience sees this image of the boy with they are likely to be reminded of themselves when they were younger, or of a young person who is currently in their own lives. This causes the story of Jordan McLinn to be more than just a story, but a reminder of dreams and aspirations that they once had as children. This invites the audience to face the reality that story is only one of many in the United States, which is where the logic, or logos, of the image comes in to play. The reason that The Right to Try, movement was founded with the aim to support terminally ill patients who have exhausted all other options in clinical treatment but may still survive due to research drugs that are developed each day around the world (Goldwater Institute) . The issue with this is that the F.D.A. does not allow the patients to try these research drugs, out of fear that they will only cause more harm. Accompanying the image of Jordan, is a statement that reads to Try can help Jordan, and millions of terminal patients like him, get the life-saving medicines they need before too As one reads through the statement it is only logical to deduct that the medication that is being discussed is the last hope for the young boy and many of those like him. The Goldwater Institute prides themselves on being an organization of forward thinkers (Goldwater Institute). Appealing to the rational of their audiences is crucial for an organization like theirs since most of their battels are faced in courtrooms. On top of this, the image also largely capitalizes on the rhetorical appeal of time, or kairos, to get point across to the audience. By adding the statement too to the image, it creates a sense of urgency within the audience. This urgency will motivate the audience to seek possible ways to act on the matter as soon as they can, for they now know that time is running out for those who Martins 3 are terminally ill. The image of the young Jordan will forever be one of the hallmark campaign images of the Goldwater Institute, but it is not the only method that they used. In another another effort to pursue the notion that The Right to Try was a noble cause, the CEO of the Goldwater Institute, Darcy Olsen, wrote a book highlighting her nationwide campaign. Since this book was written by the president of the Goldwater Institute, and the fact that it implicitly outlines so on the cover, it can be inferred that the audience knows the book comes from a point of authority, thus ethos is being fully utilized. Along with the name of the author, the book cover displays the phrase the Federal Government Prevents Americans from Getting the Life-Saving Treatment They This phrase clearly outlines what the focus of the book will be about and it appeals to the sense of logic, or logos. It does so by clearly stating that the Federal Government is preventing Americans from receiving medication, allowing the audience to rationalize that the Federal Government is impeding the Right to Live outlined in the constitution. From this conclusion, it would be very easy for the audience to realize that the Federal Government is the antagonist in the terminally fight to live. The last element of the image includes a nearly empty, orange, prescription bottle with a lock on the lid as well as a single pill at the bottom. This image is designed to appeal to the sense of emotion, or pathos, since seeing a locked pill bottle frustrates those who see the picture. This frustration is rooted in the fact that the audience infers that the pill in the bottom of the bottle represents a possible cure for a terminal disease, and the lock senselessly prevents access to these remedies. The image of the single pill at the bottom of the bottle also entertains the sense of urgency, or the rhetorical appeal kairos. This is due to the last pill in the bottle representing the last chance for those fighting for their lives, thus allowing the audience to fully realize the dire situation that many of these terminally ill patients are in. The book cover for Right to Try, by Darcy Olson, was meant to fully embody the struggle of the movement named after by employing all forms of rhetorical appeals to captivate the audience of the book. Martins 4 As the Goldwater Institute continues to fight for the rights of terminally ill patients across the United States, they are sure to model the images in their campaigns in the same fashion as the two previously discussed. This will allow the Institute to capture the hearts and minds of their audiences, successfully gaining support for their cause. As their struggle goes on it becomes more and more important that The Right to Try movement gains nationwide support as quickly as it can, for a lot of the patients they are fighting for have much time left. Martins 5 Works Cited Goldwater Institute  About. Goldwater, 2014 Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Goldwater Institute. Everyone Deserves the Right to Try: Empowering the Terminally Ill to Take Control of their  Goldwater Institute. ., 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. National Healthcare Decision Day.  The Conservation Project ., 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. United States Food and Drug Administration Prescription Drugs: Drugs Marketed in the United States That Do Not Have Required FDA Unapproved Prescription Drugs: Drugs Marketed in the United States That Do Not Have Required FDA Approval., 2016 . Web. 25 Jan. 2017.