Harrington !1 Haven Harrington Instructor Kristen Collins ENC1102 6 May 2017 Love them, Hurt them Animal cruelty has always been an issue in the world, and over the years it has substantially increased in an enormous amount. There has been several organizations who have stood up against animal cruelty and fight to have animals rights be heard, one of the organizations aggressive tactics have made an impact over the years is People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). One controversial way PETA brought awareness to animal cruelty was by a bloodied  costume and lying with her throat  on a chopping board next to a giant meat (Bennett n.p). This stakeholder is a non-profit organization that was first founded in 1980 by Alex Pacheco and Ingrid Ward Newkirk who first began the organization to protect and defend the rights of animals. The organizations main mission today is to put a stop to all animal cruelty in four main areas: factory farms, clothing trade, laboratories, and the entertainment industry. PETA has a set potent stating, are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, or use for (PETA). For PETA, it is obvious that using animals for personal gain is violating their rights and will only hinder our society in the long run. Animal cruelty in the areas of entertainment, factory farms, laboratories, and clothing has become a multi-billion dollar industry, and each day the demand of these products rise. The number of animals that are killed and used for food on factory farms is estimated Harrington !2 around 55 billion land-based non-human animals are killed in the farming industry per year. Figures are projected to increase substantially with an extra 360 million cattle and buffaloes, 560 million extra sheep and goats, and 190 million extra pigs needed by 2030 to match growing consumer (Cudworth, 2). By this disturbing prediction it is obvious that something needs to change for this industry to shrink in quantity, and it starts with us. The violence against animals in entertainment, farms, clothing, laboratories, and even households has become a social phenomenon that has been overlooked. Although most people probably have no idea how cruel some animals are treated, when you dig in and do some research you realize how inhumane these animals are being treated and cared for. Wenz describes the visuals he experienced while visiting a hen facility nails, which would normally wear down while scratching the ground, curl around the bars. Feather loss is common as hens rub against cages until many appear to have been plucked, their bodies raw with (Wenz, 176). The issue surrounding animal cruelty lies deeper than just what is right and wrong it needs some serious attention, unspeakable cruelty suffered regularly by so many animals demands ethical (Wenz, 128). One common misconception about animal cruelty is that cruelty happens in various ways, from neglect or beating of an animal, forcing animals to fight for sport, mass killing of animals for clothing, food, or as an experimental project. These animals are treated in harsh environments and have no way for stopping or standing up against what is happening to them, thats where organizations such as Harrington !3 PETA come in to defend the rights of animals and be their voice against companies that do harm to them. Animal cruelty happens everyday, it could be a dog in your neighborhood who is being neglected and starved of food and water, it could be rabbits in a laboratory being poked and prodded for experimental reasons. Just because you can not physically see animal cruelty besides from the occasional commercials that come on tv showing you cats and dogs who have been abused and neglected, does not mean that its not a prominent issue that needs to be addressed. Animal cruelty should concern everyone, it deforms our community into thinking that because these animals are being used for resources such as diseases, food, and clothing that it makes the act against these animals a little less harsh. You would not want your household cat or dog to be beat, starved, tested on, or killed for food so why is it okay that other animals are enduring these harsh acts? If the growing issue of animal cruelty does not become addressed and severely changed it will only hinder our society in the long run, and will keep becoming increasingly more and more common to treat living things like they are nothing. There is a profuse amount of ways to get involved, and actions to take to make a difference in the animal cruelty industry. One way to get involved is to volunteer at places that provide homes to animals like the Humane Society, spending a few hours to play with the dogs and cats that have a home impacts not only the animals but you are helping the Humane Society by just being there. The Humane society at times served the public late January, a Humane Society video of graphic cow abuse at a slaughterhouse in Chino, southern Harrington !4 California, led to the largest recall of (When Animal Rights Turns Ugly, 603). There are other solutions that will make a difference to animal cruelty, you can make an impact within your daily living by not buying products that have been tested on animals, by going vegetarian, and not buying clothes that came off of an animals back. Another way to help stop animal cruelty is by donating any amount of money, even if its just one dollar to the PETA organization to help build and promote their business to keep calling out the inhumane acts that people are committing against animals that do not have voice of their own. Through awareness and becoming more educated on the issue you can make a difference, no matter how minor it may seem it is doing more of an impact than you probably even realize. All in all, animal cruelty is unquestionably an issue that needs to be addressed and changed. Animal cruelty happens everyday throughout our country and just because you see an animal being beat, starved, tested on, or even killed mean its not an outstanding issue in our society. There are several organizations to get involved in such as volunteering at the Humane Society, donating any money you can to an organization like PETA who helps defend animals from this cruel abuse, and even organizations or clubs in your local area that help to house and feed animals. Animal cruelty is a very real and prominent issue that targets animals that have no way of defending themselves from such ruthless acts. Act now and ignore this controversial subject, just by becoming educated on the matter you are making a difference in the way animals are being treated by being more aware on what you eat, wear, and buy. It starts with you. Harrington !5 Works Cited Bennett, Coleman & Co.Ltd. Activist to Raise Issue of Animal Cruelty in Chicken  The Times of India, 2015. EBSCOhost. Web. 5 May 2017. Cudworth, Erika. Killing Animals: Sociology, Species Relations and Institutionalized  The Sociological Review, vol. 63, no. 1, Feb. 2015, pp. 1-18. EBSCOhost,13 April 2017. Wenz, Peter S. Against Cruelty to  Social Theory and Practice, no. 1, 2007, p. 127. EBSCOhost. Web. 13 April 2017. When Animal Rights Turns  Nature Biotechnology, vol. 26, no. 6, June 2008, pp. 603-605. EBSCOhost. Web. 12 April 2017. for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights PETA, www.peta.org/. Accessed 5 May 2017.