Peoples 1 Corynn Peoples Professor Theodosiou ENC1102-075 23 February 2017 The Surfrider Foundation and Plastic Waste Throughout the years, our ocean has been facing an exponential rise in marine animal deaths caused by plastic pollution. Around eight million metric tons of plastic waste enters the ocean from land, increasing the amount of debris that a marine animal encounters (Sebille). The Surfrider Foundation has been devoting their time and money to decrease the amount of plastic waste and to reuse as much of it as possible. To achieve their goal, the Surfrider Foundation has utilized advertisements to convey their message of animal suffering and environmental degradation that results from an increase in the consumption of plastic products. The two specific images that were chosen represents these negative impacts and works to bring the attention of the consumers to this ongoing issue. Peoples 2 The Surfrider Foundation is an organization that is dedicated to the protection and enjoyment of the ocean, waves, and beaches through a powerful activist network (Surfrider Foundation). This organization works to ensure that our beaches are accessible, our water is clean, our coast is preserved, and plastic is kept from polluting our waterways (Surfrider Foundation). They are also concerned with the welfare of marine animals and their ecosystems as the ocean is experiencing a dramatic rise in pollution. Plastic debris has impacted at least 267 species through ingestion, starvation, suffocation, entanglement, and infection (Clean Water Action). Plastic can also carry pollutants such as PCBs that can eventually pass up the food chain and affect human health (Center for Biological Diversity). It is the Surfrider overall goal to educate the public on the impact that the unsustainable use of resources, especially the use of disposable plastic products, has on the environment and encourage people to participate in conservation efforts to prevent an even larger amount of debris from reaching the ocean. For both images, it is implied that the Surfrider Foundation is targeting an audience of consumers who purchase and waste plastic products such as bottles, lighters, food wrappers, and plastic bags. It does not seem that it is intended for a certain gender or age group as it can apply to anyone and everyone who has purchased plastic. With this audience in mind, the Surfrider Foundation utilizes the rhetorical appeals of ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos effectively through their advertisements to spark a change in mindset in how people consume. Ethos, the appeal to credibility, is visibly present in each of the advertisements as the logo of the Surfrider Foundation is stamped in the corner. Within the first image, there is also an additional logo of a group within the Surfrider Foundation called Above Both Peoples 3 images contain a link to their website for the audience to click on to obtain information on how to act and rectify the issue that is being displayed. This increases the credibility of the Surfrider Foundation and the organizations within it, proving that they are truly concerned with the issue that they are presenting to everyday consumers. The Surfrider Foundation has also strategically implemented the appeal to logic known as logos. The first image is showing a decomposing seabird with the contents of its stomach consisting of fishing line, bottle caps, and miscellaneous plastic products. According to G.B Derraik, the reason that plastic is so hazardous to the environment is that its characteristics make them suitable for the manufacture of a wide range of products (842). If someone is looking at this for the first time, it could open their eyes to an issue they may not have known to be occurring. With all the plastic that the seabird ingested, it is appropriate to conclude that the cause of death was from starvation as the seabird did not receive the required nutrients from eating what they believed was food. This implies that consumers are the indirect cause of the death of this animal. The text saying, Above is bright white and larger than any other text on the image. This indicates that Above is the overall message that the Surfrider Foundation is meaning to get across. The brightness and color of the text against the dark, earthy background places more emphasis on this message. It is implied that the Surfrider Foundation chose the words Above for telling consumers to stop using plastic and for adding to the effect that the colorful plastic is rising above the decomposed seabird since, never goes (Center for Biological Diversity). As a result of this logos, the appeal to emotion known as pathos is also in effect. The deceased seabird with plastic in its stomach can generate a feeling of sadness and guiltiness. The colorful Peoples 4 plastic against the earth-tone of the decomposed bird and dirt represents how consumers are living happily in a world with the convenience of disposable plastic products while the consequences of their use are leading to the gloomy deaths of unsuspecting animals. All of this represents a state of urgency to decrease the amount of plastic waste that enters the oceans and can be placed under kairos, the appeal to timeliness. The second image is showing a seal with a scanner pointed towards its head and a receipt on the side. The expression on the face is one of someone who is defeated, accepting of their fate, and on the verge of tears as if in potential pain. Regarding logos, the scanner undoubtedly represents a gun and human consumerism. This can also symbolize that when a consumer buys plastic, they are basically buying the life. The blurry background and the clarity of the seal puts emphasis on the seal being held at gunpoint and brings that to the attention of the audience, serving as the main focal point. The fact that a human is holding the scanner to the face exemplifies that humans are superior to animals and could be interpreted as consumers only being concerned with their well-being and not the well-being of animals who unfortunately encounter the repercussions of the human benefit of plastic. The dirty, crinkled receipt in the upper left-hand corner looks as if it was trash, which goes along with the theme of waste. The receipt reads, Buy, the Sea meaning that with every plastic product that is purchased, the sea is going to face negative effects and animal fatalities. This is backed up with the information directly below it that is stating, million tons of plastic packaging waste ends up in the ocean each The Surfrider decision to make a seal the animal affected by this is only logical because it brings truth to the advertisement. According to Sebille, a curious seal, an intact packing band drifting in the Peoples 5 water is a serious entanglement (World Economic Forum). Once entangled, the seal suffers a slow death and becomes a casualty from plastic pollution. The receipt also says, Change the Way We inviting and encouraging consumers to support the Surfrider goals. Pathos is shown through the expression on the face. This can evoke a feeling of guiltiness as the consumer realizes that their plastic consumption is affecting the lives of animals. It can also cause the audience to feel sad for the seal and other animals as they have become victims of human consumerism. Kairos is also present as the image presents an issue that needs to be addressed and remediated immediately or else more animals will die and possibly face extinction in the future. Both images contribute to the overall importance of the Surfrider goal of ending the use of plastic for disposable convenience and leading it more towards the purpose of reusing. The two images represent the concern that the Surfrider Foundation has for the welfare of the marine environment and life that are affected by humans and the pollution that sources from them. The Surfrider Foundation relies on the use of negative pathos to manipulate fear and guilt in the targeted audience in hopes that plastic consumption decreases. As a result, their advertisements are successful in portraying their message and have done their job effectively. To conclude, until the Surfrider Foundation witnesses a change in the consumption of plastic and a significant decrease in the amount of plastic pollution in the ocean, they will continue to create advertisements to persuade consumers to change their mindsets and actions to better the situation. The utilization of ethos will prove their credibility and convince their audience that they are trustworthy. Logos will prove to their audience that details are made for Peoples 6 a specific purpose based from logic. Pathos will bring out the emotional side of the audience. Lastly, kairos will persuade the audience to act upon this issue immediately to prevent it from continuing. With these appeals, the Surfrider Foundation can appeal to their targeted audience and receive more recognition for their efforts. Peoples 7 Works Cited Derraik, G.B. Pollution of the Marine Environment by Plastic Debris: A Marine Pollution Bulletin, 44.9, 2002, p.842-52. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Plastic Center for Biological Diversity. N.p., n.d. Web. Sebille, Erik Van. Much Plastic Is There In The World Economic Forum. N.p., 12 Jan. 2016. Web. Surfrider Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. Problem of Marine Plastic Clean Water Action. N.p., 20 Apr. 2016. Web.