Pellissier 1 Olivia Pellissier Erika Staiger ENC1102 16 April 2017 Deforestation The forests play a crucial role in the ecosystem, as well as the human population. Chandrasekharan stated, in the article Incentive Mechanism for Preventing Deforestation and Promoting Conservation of Forest Ecosystem, forests are a source of natural biodiversity that inhibits growth in the ecosystem while also providing wealth through recreation and tourism (489). Many organisms, including human life, prosper off of the vast forest life that fills the surrounding environment. Forests contribute to many other processes, including carbon absorption (Chandrasekharan 489). This process allows the forest to act as a carbon sink to reduce the amount of greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere in order to prevent global warming (Chandrasekharan 489). Without the forests, human and animal life will be severely affected due to detrimental changes to the environment. The thing getting in the way of forest life improvements and enrichment is deforestation. Human life has already been a reason for the extinction of a species, including the Passenger Pigeon and the Dodo Bird, and scientists are worried more species will begin to disappear due to deforestation. Delacote mentions in the article, Reducing Deforestation and Forest Degradation: Leakage or Synergy, that is mainly responsible for the degradation of forests across the world due to requiring more land for crops and cattle (501). Even though there needs to be land to grow crops in order to provide for the growing society, there are alternatives that do not require destruction to the environment. Pellissier 2 Students at USF need to be aware of these affects and take action, such as recycling and using different forms of transportation, to prevent any further damage. Forests are home to a variety of different life within and beneath the canopy and the more forests that are cut down, the more loss of biodiversity there is. Moore mentions in his article, Trees Are the Answer, that the biggest issue with deforestation is the detrimental effects it has on biodiversity within the environment. the trees are cut down, the habitats or homes will be lost and the species that live in them will (Moore). The World Wildlife Fund announced that 50,000 species are becoming extinct every year due to human influence (Moore). Deforestation is not only manmade, it is also caused naturally by the environment through forest fires and degradation caused by climate change (Moore). In the bigger picture, the manmade causes are in fact due to human influence, but they happen on their own through the natural environment. Deforestation is mainly a concern in the tropical rainforests because those forests are home to the most exotic species of plants and animals One forest in particular that has had a lot of problems with deforestation is the Amazon Rainforest. 17% of the forest has been lost in the last 50 years, mostly due to forest conversion and cattle In the article Cause Deforestation of the Amazon Rainforest to Surge, Gajewski mentions that there have been positive changes with deforestation in the Amazon due to the Brazilian government enforcing laws and educating the public on how harmful deforestation is to the environment (48). Biodiversity is important to maintain around the world in order for the ecosystems to perform its regular cycle for life. The biggest cause of deforestation, estimating roughly 80 percent, is agriculture There are policies that focus on limiting agriculture expansion in order to reduce deforestation around the world, but it is not that easy since humans need land to grow Pellissier 3 crops in order to survive (Delacote 501). Evidence has sown that agriculture expansion will decrease if the labor market improved, which would also decrease deforestation (Delacote 510). This evidence explains that more families use crop land to make their revenue and supply for themselves because the labor/job market is so diluted (Delacote 510). Deforestation causes many effects to the environment and in the long run, the human population will be affected as well. It is important to reduce the amount of deforestation happening because deforestation threatens a wide variety of plants and animals that keep the planet alive and able to thrive As mentioned earlier, forests act as a carbon sink that reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere in order to prevent global warming (Chandrasekharan 489). This is an important process in maintaining the oxygen levels in the atmosphere and if there were no forests left to absorb the carbon, the human population would not be able to survive (Chandrasekharan 490). It is important for the public to understand how damaging deforestation is to the environment because it can cause serious effects to the human population that would be too problematic to fix. For college students, the best solutions to this problem are to recycle and avoid having to drive a car as much as possible. First off, by recycling anything that is able to be recycled, the students of the University of South Florida would be working towards less landfill. The more landfill there is, the more land there needs to be to hold it all. Forested lands are cut down in order to support the large quantities of landfill that the population supplies As a college student, there are many papers and lab reports that need to be written, but one way to help recycle is by using less paper. If something needs to be printed, try using both sides of the paper instead of one piece of paper for each page. percent of the wood harvested is used to manufacture pulp and paper, mainly for printing, packaging, and sanitary Pellissier 4 (Moore). Conserving paper will help reduce the amount of paper that needs to be supplied which, in the long run, means less trees being cut down. Another way to take action against deforestation is to travel less with a car and take either bus transportation, ride a bike or walk. College students are going to and from class every day and it is a lot of work to try and find a parking space. Using these forms of transportation will help USF students get to class easier and also help the environment. Cars are fueled by petrol, which comes from oil that has been mined from the ground and in order for mining to occur, forests have to be cut down in order to drill Also, carbon monoxide is released into the atmosphere when driving a car which is bad for the environment and could eventually cause the forests to deteriorate Recycling more and driving less are little steps to preventing deforestation, but these steps will have a huge impact on the environment and eventually lead to solving the deforestation problem for good. Overall, deforestation has a detrimental effect on the environment which is primarily triggered by human impact. Leckie mentions in the article, Deforestation Mapping Sampling Designs for Canadian Landscapes, is the direct human-induced conversion of forest to non-forest land (1564). People do not realize that all of the profit and land they are attaining, causes more harm than good in the long run, but everyone is too focused on what they are receiving in that moment. fact is, a world without forests is as unthinkable as a day without (Moore). There are solutions to solve this issue, but it will take time since this problem has already caused such ample damage. The students of the University of South Florida need to take action against this issue by recycling and using alternatives for transportation in order to save what is left of the environment. Pellissier 5 Works Cited Chandrasekharan, Indrani, et al. Incentive Mechanism for Preventing Deforestation and Promoting Conservation of Forest  Current Science (00113891), vol. 98, no. 4, 25 Feb. 2010, pp. 489-498.  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Delacote, Philippe and Arild Angelsen. Reducing Deforestation and Forest Degradation: Leakage or  Land Economics, vol. 91, no. 3, Aug. 2015, pp. 501-515. Gajewski, Karen Ann. Cause Deforestation of the Amazon Rainforest to  The Humanist, no. 4, 2011, p. 48. Leckie, Donald G., et al. Deforestation Mapping Sampling Designs for Canadian  Canadian Journal of Forest Research, vol. 45, no. 11, Nov. 2015, pp. 1564-1576. Moore, Patrick. TREES ARE the ANSWER. (Cover  Forest Products Journal, vol. 50, no. 10, Oct. 2000, p. 12. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login? Rainforest  Rainforest Concern - What Can We Do to Stop Deforestation? N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.