Hedderman 1 Michaela Hedderman Professor Townsend ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Finding Equity and Equality in Collegiate Sports Although women have made great strides with gender equality, equity in collegiate sports still has a long way to go before women and men have or resources, positions and post collegiate opportunities. The investment in sports has had a significant head start, and collegiate and professional sports and associated sponsors and marketing have evolved at a similarly fast pace and become co-dependent for continued success. As a result, the investments at colleges to continue this self-sustaining funding model grew with a primary focus on sports, to the detriment of academics for these student athletes and for sports. Besides athletics are widely viewed as an inferior product among the main sports and thus often (Ross). equity and equality in collegiate sports is difficult for women due to inequalities between genders, but federal government and its departments are turning the tide to rectify this disparity and change what colleges, women athletes, and other stakeholders can do to speed up the tipping of the scales to greater equity in collegiate sports. While the reduction of discrimination and inequities in education have long been a focus of federal government oversight and analysis, this focus has expanded into collegiate sports, through a unique partnership between the federal government, sports marketing and private non-profits. The U.S. Department of Education Office of Civil Rights, also known as the OCR, is Hedderman 2 a division of the Department of Education (DOE) that attempts to create access to education and to promote educational excellence throughout the nation through vigorous enforcement of civil (OCR). The OCR has created regulations prohibiting discrimination on the basis of disability, sex, age, race and color discrimination. The OCR partners with the National Collegiate Athletic Association, also known as the NCAA. The NCAA is a membership driven organization dedicated to safeguarding the wellbeing of student-athletes and equipping them with the skills to succeed on the playing field, in the classroom, and throughout life. Academic excellence, and the focus on the holistic development of the is paramount to maintaining the federal grant and other federal financial aid that colleges depend upon. The OCR is involved with associations like NCAA that support the implementation of the Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972. Title IX mandates that: No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving federal financial . While the OCR has been successful in supporting equality within collegiate sports, and supported the explosion of private funding and NCAA television marketing sponsors for collegiate sports such as football and basketball, the OCR is now focused on correcting gender imbalances within the NCAA between men and sports. There are many common misconceptions about Title IX and what it aims to accomplish. In particular, Title IX applies to any form of discrimination, and does not apply only to female students. Even though the OCR originally required the NCAA to expand athletics to women and girls, Title IX is now focused upon creating more equity between both men and women in Hedderman 3 collegate athletics. Though it currently is increasingly enforcing equal rights by sexual harassment in any education program, including sexual harassment of student- athletes by university Staying In Even if you are not directly involved with collegiate sports, everyone is somehow impacted by sports in one way or another. You probably have a sister, brother, cousin or friend who plays sports in middle school, high school or during recess. Additionally, you may have a family member or friend who also watches sports, whether it be on television or in person. Everyone who watches television, surfs the net, uses phone apps or purchases items see all types of advertising. Maybe you have even seen an ad on television or on a billboard using athletes that promotes a sports drink or brand, that persuaded you through the use of ethos to buy their product. These advertisements are developed with millions of dollars to subliminally, persuade buyers through the use of pathos to buy their products. Somehow, everyone is affected either directly or indirectly by sports and the athletes that play them. In particular, the NCAA has directly affected every collegiate and pro athlete in the United States, as well as any middle or high school athletes aspiring to play at a collegiate level. The NCAA was developed to bring equity into colleges, that are the primary source of pro-athlete recruits. Title IX enforces the requirements that athletes must maintain minimum academic requirements and promoted the as opposed to the The NCAA is required under Title IX to enforce minimum requirements for recruiting and scholarships for high school students being recruited to college teams and for pro-teams recruiting college athletes. The NCAA depends upon membership dues and the television and other advertising marketing revenue that is raised through collegiate sports being shown on Hedderman 4 television and cable networks. Colleges also depend upon income that is raised through sponsors, advertising and marketing funds and fundraising. Colleges and the NCAA share in advertising dollars and deals with sports stadiums that televise college and professional sports. Income opportunities drive advertising and sponsor funding and the more successful an athlete or a collegiate team, the more opportunity for advertising and sponsor dollars. Without Title IX and the OCR, the NCAA and college sports would be driven solely by funding and athletics and federal funds would be subsidizing sports rather than what it is intended to support - academics. Without the NCAA, there would be no professional sport teams, and no collegiate sport teams, meaning that the entire sports industry would not exist. Consequently, if there were no collegiate sports teams, one of the main sources of revenue for colleges across the country would be eliminated. For this reason, it exhibits that even if you are not directly affected by sports, you may know someone who attends a college that depends on revenue, reputation and acknowledgment from these sports. This directly explains why sport viewers and fans would depend on the NCAA for entertainment. Additionally, why an entire industry depends on this organization in order to survive and prosper. The OCR, comes into play by creating equal opportunities for both men and women within these sports. Without the OCR, sports would dominate the NCAA as well as professional sports across the country, since altogether mens sports create more revenue than According to national statistics, both and top leagues by revenue span across 5 different sports...Football, Baseball, Basketball, Ice Hockey and about how would you feel if a woman in your life that you cared for was not receiving equal treatment and did not receive the same opportunities as her male counterpart, Hedderman 5 regardless if she was more talented than the male within the given sport. Nevertheless, without the OCR, the NCAA itself cannot exist; if the NCAA did not follow the regulations set forth by the OCR, the organization would not be able to prevail. Alternatively to the section of Title IX that protects athletes, due to Title IX, schools are required to respond and remedy hostile education (Title IX). The failure for a college to do so, means that it could risk losing its federal funding. Additionally, colleges be proactive in ensuring that campus is free of sex (Title IX). Moreover, this means that the OCR not only protects equality within athletes, but it also protects the rights of any college students facing similar inequalities as well. While you may not be affected by sports, you as a person who knows a college student or is one yourself, should feel protected by the OCR and the ways it protects students across the country from sexual discrimination. If you believe that both women and men should have equal opportunities and have equal rights within collegiate sports, or that college students of all genders across the country should be protected from sexual discrimination, then you support the workings of the OCR without even realizing it. The OCR protects more than just equity between the genders in collegiate sports, and it is much bigger than one would normally expect. There are many ways you can support your fellow students, as well as yourself, and support the organization that is protecting all of us as students. As a first option, if you believe that a team, coach, or institution is violating the terms of Title IX, you can file a Title IX complaint which is filed through the Office of Education. You can submit this complaint with your name or anonymously, and you can go into as little or as much detail as you prefer. Similarly, a Title IX civil lawsuit can be filed if a person or student believes that a college has violated the Title IX rights. A lawsuit differs from a complaint Hedderman 6 because it is far more severe and a Title IX civil lawsuit is filed in a federal court, rather than through the Office of Education. Although, there are other ways more realistic ways that one can support the OCR and collegiate student athletes. For example, by supporting your sports teams, you can help with just by your support of showing up. Since sports are underrepresented in the NCAA, and male dominated sports create the most revenue, supporting sports will therefore help not only the sports teams, but the school as a whole. The more recognition from a student body that a sport receives, especially sports, will bring more publicity and help women receive better opportunities in the long run. Helping your school advertise for sporting events over social media is a way one could help with the click of a button. If you see a tweet or facebook post asking the students and faculty of a school to attend a sporting event, retweeting or sharing the post can help attract more people to attend the events. Additionally, if one really wanted to make a change, talking to the head of athletic marketing in athletics and sharing ideas of new and interesting ways to attract the most amount of students to a sporting event could help tremendously, since they are always open for new ideas. The OCR protects not only women, but men as well, and ensures that both sexes are given equal treatment and opportunities. In conclusion, the most important thing you can do as a student is to know your rights, know what is the correct and incorrect behavior for an institution and the personnelles running it to display. Hedderman 7 Work Cited About  Home. US Department of Education (ED), n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https:// www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/aboutocr.html>. How  N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Ross, Terrance F. What Gender Inequality Looks Like in Collegiate  Atlantic Media Company, 18 Mar. 2015. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. <https://www.theatlantic.com/education/archive/2015/03/what-gender-inequality-loo ks-like-in-collegiate-sports/387985/>. Staying In  IN (n.d.): n. pag. NCAA. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Title  Your Know Your IX, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.