Alammar Abdalaziz Alammar Ashley Tisdale ENC1101 April 27 th 2017 Peace, Hope and Love: Race Relations and Discrimination in America Islamophobia has been an ongoing problem in America even before 9/11 and it has become abhorrent in recent years. A phobia, per the Merriam-Webster dictionary, is exaggerated, usually inexplicable and illogical fear of a particular object, class of objects, or The hate-crime report suggests that 56.58% of all hate crimes are motivated by race and ethnicity differences. An issue that has been going on for more than a decade now is discrimination against Muslim Americans, in the US. Islam is a religion that is followed by 1.7 billion people, is now the main target of the media. Much has changed since 9/11, hate-crimes against Muslim Americans has increased yearly and by 60% between 2014 and 2015. U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch said percent increase in hate crimes committed against Muslim Americans, and the highest total of anti-Muslim incidents since 2001, when 9/11 spurred so many reprehensible (cnsnews.com). The report indicates in the first six years after 9/11, the FBI investigated more than 800 incidents involving violence, threats and vandalism against persons perceived to be Muslim or of Arab or Middle Eastern origin. Being Muslim in America is not easy, Muslims face discrimination every day in America and its only getting worse. There are 1.6 billion Muslims in the world roughly 22% of the population, now if all Muslims are terrorist have a bigger problem on our hands. Alammar Hate-crimes targeting Muslims in America, are only growing, for example in St. Louis, a man was arrested after the police said he pointed a gun at a Muslim family shopping on his block and told them they should all die. Now that seven Muslim countries are banned from entering the US, Sunil Bhatia, Ph.D., a cultural psychologist said move to ban Muslim immigrants is illegal based on the 1965 law Congress enacted forbidding the exclusion of immigrants based on national (www.psychologytoday.com). Robert McCaw is a government affairs manager for the council on American-Islamic Relations said Islam is no more violent or less violent than Christianity or any other monotheistic think one stereotype is true: that Muslims are being highly discriminated against. So, an experience which people have experienced (www.huffingtonpost.com). Although 73% of American believe Muslims are facing a great deal of discrimination, however the continuous increase may lead one to wonder if things will ever change. As president George Bush stated at a mosque in DC acts of violence against innocents violate the fundamental tenets of the Islamic faith, and important for my fellow Americans to understand (www.plagrisim.org). The 43 rd president of the US speech was influential at that time as he said that after 9/11. The only thing I still question is that will we ever find peace in our communities. Hatred of Muslim American did not appear out of thin air, the religion of Islam has been misrepresented and misinterpreted by terrorist groups who now kill innocent people. Islam does not accept or support that behavior. According to the holy taking of one innocent life is like taking all of Mankind... and the saving of one life is like saving all of (5:33). The situation is very complicated as there is a fair number of people who misrepresent the religion, the media also plays a great role in this misrepresentation, every time a Muslim commit Alammar murder the media targets the religion, and when a black person commits murder they focus on gang related violence, however when the killer is white almost always mentally disabled. You never hear the word terrorist unless the killer is Muslim. of terrorist attacks carried out in the United States from 1980 to 2005 have been by (huffingtonpost.com). Assume Muslims carried out all the worlds terrorist attacks, have been 140,000 terror attacks committed worldwide since 1970 Even if Muslims carried out these attacks those terrorists would represent less than 0.00009 percent of all (huffingtonpost.com). Muslims suffer racisms and bigotry daily in America. Muslim women in the U.S. face other challenges in their daily lives. People can notice them more easily because of their hijab, many Muslims American women feel they are targeted by the way they look and are treated unfairly sometimes, many women believe they are given a different attitude when shopping in stores than Americans who wear the hijab because they follow a different religion. So, where do we go from here? There are many ways to better race relations between Americans, I firmly believe in unity, if Americans and the entire world stand together against racism and discrimination. We should educate our children to be accepting of everyone and never discriminate against another human, hate is something taught not something born with. The end of discrimination starts with you, discrimination is dehumanizing, when you treat someone differently solely based on race you deny the value of who they are as human beings. Alammar Work cited page. AG Lynch: 67% Increase in Hate Crimes Against Muslim Americans in  CNS News. N.p., 15 Dec. 2016. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Bhatia, Sunil. Muslims Is Illegal and Psychology today. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Islam in America Post  The Pluralism Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. 6 Fast Facts About the New Hate-Crime  Reason.com. N.p., 15 Nov. 2016. Web. 05 Feb. 2017