Nir !1 Ben Nir Harley Campbell ENC 1102 6 May 2017 Animals and Captivity In generation there are many debates over the rights for animals. There have been many controversial topics regarding animal testing, animal trade, as well as animals in entertainment. These contentious issues have sparked many different opinions on whether wildlife should be treated in these ways. Since the middle of the animals such as dolphins and killer whales have been captured and used for the entertainment industry as well as for research purposes. Organizations such as SeaWorld, which was originally an underwater restaurant, began its debut in 1964 after expanding and creating space for additional marine mammals to preform and attract tourists from around the world Animals and The Although organizations such as SeaWorld proved to be enjoyable to visitors, the marine animals within them suffer from many health conditions. The captivity of wildlife such as killer whales and dolphins in these entertainment parks has become a major issue and has been shown to be inhumane. As concern for these animals become more and more prevalent it is important to inform the general public regarding the issue of captivity through research as well as stepping up in their communities, contacting executive members of SeaWorld staff, donating to organizations advocating for the freedom of these animals, as well as contacting your local lawmakers. The issue of animal captivity has been a controversial topic within the last decade and it is important that the general public understands how these environments are harmful and inhumane. According to People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), orcas as well as dolphins have been tragic consequences physically and and their natural lifespan from the medium of 30 years of age to about 9 years of and Marine Parks: This shows that these animals are suffering from these captive environments and placing them in these situations is truly inhumane. Additionally, laws such as the Endangered Species Act (ESA) which was enacted in 1973 protects a variety of marine mammals and wildlife from captivity and hunting. Nir !2 Although this law helps protect many marine animals, to this day there are no laws that prohibit the display and captivity of orcas and bottlenose dolphins in the entertainment industry. Of all the animals that are actually covered with this law, many have very minimal standards for commodities such as housing, feeding, as well as care. Marine mammals such as the orcas are living in equivalent to the size of are constant swimming in circles, and denied the opportunity to engage in any natural resulting in the early death of the majority of these beautiful creatures and Marine Parks: Marine mammal captivity has become a major issue as we continue to see more and more species of wildlife appear on the endangered list. Although there have been minor improvements of conditions at SeaWorld with housing, they are still putting these animals in unrealistic and inhumane environments. Many marine biologists are also very concerned with the amount of research the SeaWorld institute has published and claimed from these captive orcas. As stated in mission statement is preformed to gain an understanding of reproductive endocrinology, anatomy, as well as behavior ; however, SeaWorld has yet to prove that the amount of time researching these orcas has been beneficial at all Statement: Researcher and marine biologist, Ingrid Visser, has progressively stated that the 52 articles SeaWorld has published, three are duplicates, and others are studying the wild which troubles scientists because with having orcas in captivity for over 50 years this amount of research is truly inadequate (Shiffman 1). This further encourages that keeping these animals in captivity seems only beneficial for the entertainment business as a whole, and completely disregards the conservation aspects of these mammals. Additionally, the recent film which documented the reality of these animals in captivity has shown the public how inhumane these conditions are, through the capturing process and in their tanks. has created a great impact on the annual SeaWorld attendance and inspired many audiences to step up and advocate for the freedom of these mammals. The main reasons we as a society should care, however, is due to the fact that these mammals are suffering; emotionally as well as physically, and could potentially lead to the death of these creatures. For roughly half a century, SeaWorld facilities have been causing severe trauma, depression, and many other psychological issues that causes them to their teeth because they bite on the steel gates that are used to separate them and forcefully bang their heads against the tank walls as (Bekoff 1). Keeping Nir !3 and studying them in the wild not only lets their populations thrive, but we are not isolating them from their families and natural social patterns. There are a variety of ways in which one can take action and protect animals from captivity. One of the easier ways would be to protest against SeaWorld and captivity within your communities and spread the awareness regarding these inhumane actions. The first way you can create an impact is to simply not show up and attend these marine marks regularly. Furthermore you can advocate for the freedom of these animals by donating to large organizations such as People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), Whale and Dolphin Conservation (WDC) and many more that actively and directly protest against SeaWorld . Websites such as seaworldofhurt.com, www.hsi.org/Marinecaptivity, and http:// uk.whales.org/donate/captivity which specifically contribute to the rehabilitation of injured orcas as well as creating more more spacious aquariums in SeaWorld facilities across the country. Another way of combating against these inhumane actions are contacting your florida lawmakers by sending mail (electronically and/or written) or visiting their offices. Many of the florida senators have their emails located online and it is entirely possible that you can contact them advocating against the captivity of these marine mammals. While there have been a significant amount of efforts to help free these animals and place them into wild environments again such as inshore pens, there are still ongoing issues around the world that proceed to manipulate these animals in the entertainment business through captivity. With the advancement of modern technology and methods, it should be without a doubt that we can research and study these animals in their wild environments without isolating them from their families and harming them. It is our duty to step up and take action in protecting our earths wildlife by contacting and advocating for the conservation of these astonishing marine mammals. Nir !4 Works Cited and Marine PETA, www.peta.org/issues/animals-in-entertainment/zoos-pseudo- sanctuaries/aquariums-marine-parks/. Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. Bekoff, Marc. Drives Killer Whales Crazy: SeaWorld Fights Fines For Placing Profit Over Psychology Today, Sussex Publishers, 20 Sept. 2011, www.psychologytoday.com/blog/ animal-emotions/201109/captivity-drives-killer-whales-crazy-seaworld-fights-fines-placing. Accessed 6 May 2017. The Documentary That Exposes SeaWorld of Hurt, www.seaworldofhurt.com/ features/blackfish-documentary-exposes-seaworld/. Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. Animals and the Animal Legal Defense Fund, aldf.org/resources/advocating-for-animals/ captive-animals-and-the-law/. Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. Entertainment, SeaWorld Parks &. Animals: Explore. Discover. Connect., seaworld.org/en/conservation-and-research/reproductive-research-center/mission-statement/. Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. Shiffman, David. Exaggerated Its Research Slate Magazine, 17 June 2014, Accessed 18 Apr. 2017.