Jones1 Intermediate Draft Jimmy Jones Ms. Lay ENC 1102 April 14, 2017 Pay That Man His Money Oh the NCAA. The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), has rules and opinions of their own, hiding behind their so call non-profit organization but in reality making money hand over fist. To the general public, nobody knows where it goes. It just vanish into thin air, it has to go somewhere. The NCAA makes money off of television, merchandise, and contracts with schools and about every company associated with the sports played under the NCAA. The first the on the agenda for the NCAA should be to put this money to use. Why not a better way to go about that then paying the players playing NCAA sports money based on performance. The student athletes are given scholarships, but that is just to give us a good education. The time and effort a college athlete puts in everyday to perfect their craft is countless. These students just going to school; they are essentially working. Playing a sport in college is like a job. It is seven days a week, constant stress, and having to go to school on top of it. These athletes should be rewarded for the sacrifices they make to not be a regular Jones2 student. To not just mix in with the crowd. The normal college student and professors know what it takes to excel at a collegiate sport while keeping up with school. The day long enough. A college athlete needs a few more hours just to get what they need to do done. A 24-hour day just long enough. The dedication it takes to succeed at a college sport and go to school on the side is extremely demanding. Each day consists of working out, full practice, recovery or treatment work and study hall. I even mention having to do homework or study for a test. There even time to work and maybe have a little cash on the side. Here is a story from Tyson Harnett of the Huffington Post about trying to work and be a student athlete at the same time. a little extra money to see a movie or go out to dinner once a week, my freshman roommate worked a job at the university, earning about $7/hour. He would work his butt off all day, with two or sometimes three basketball training sessions, plus classes and homework, and go to that job for a few hours late at night. He would come back exhausted, but he needed whatever money they would pay him. However, once the season started up, he work that job anymore. We were on the road all the time, even gone for two straight weeks at one point. The teachers let us do our work from the road, but the job going to pay you just because you were playing basketball on a road trip. The team gave us meal money (about $7 per meal) so we could get chips and condiments with our sandwiches, but anything else was considered an NCAA (The Huffington Post) This is where the students and faculty can get involved. The athletes are giving so much time and effort to the university. The people who directly involved can come together to rally in the courtyards of the main campus to spread the message on how these athletes should be treated. Sports are taking over college campuses and give the students something to look Jones3 forward to. An entire day is dedicated solely for the purpose of watching the most popular sport, football. When people think of Saturdays in fall, they see advertisements and the first thing that comes to mind is football. Not only can people go to the game in person, they can watch on television and major television channels as well. the 2013 NCAA March Madness tournament, the ad-rate was $700,000 for just a 30 second (US News). The television companies make millions of dollars off of the students and so does the school. Also, Jon Solomon states, are endorsement deals with companies to supply the school with equipment and (Solomon). Students and faculty have to look far to find their schools SAAC group. SAAC is the Student Athletic Advisory Committee. (ACC). This is a group of students that play a sport at their school. The group may be open to only student athletes to join but all meetings are open to anyone on campus who have interests in the future of athletics and the student athletes on campus. This is a great way to show your passion to the university and this could be the major difference maker in in getting the message across about NCAA athletes and their movement for fair pay. This is a perfect example of why NCAA athletes should get paid to play their sport. It may be the best four years of your life, but it also can be the most expensive. The life is rough, and should be rewarded for putting in so many man hours day in and day out. A debate that has been discussed for years is whether or not NCAA athletes should get paid to play their sport. People get paid to do a job, so why student athletes getting the same treatment. Playing a sport is a job just like professional athletes, getting paid to perform and bring home championships is the same for college athletes. Jones4 In conclusion, NCAA athletes should get paid for their performance playing their sport. With all the money that college athletes make for the school and television they deserve their slice of the pie. only going to change if people on the board of the NCAA are ex college athletes because you truly have to understand what the life of an NCAA athlete is like. This will have a direct impact on our future and the up and coming athletes who will eventually play college sports. Maybe one day your grandchild will be bringing home thousands for scoring goals. So, pay that man his money, he deserves it. Jones5 Works Cited * would not let me hang indent* Hartnett, Tyson. Why College Athletes Should Be  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 21 Oct. 2013. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Solomon, Jon. How Much Are Colleges Paid for Sports Apparel Deals? Ed Case Offers  AL.com. Alabama . Com, 15 Jan. 2014. Web. 03 May 2017. SAAC in the  ACC SAAC. ACC, 1 Jan. 2017. Web. 3 May 2017. NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA, NCAA Committee, 1 Jan. 2017, www.ncaa.org/. Accessed 3 May 2017. Chiu, Jeff. NCAA Athletes Get US News, United States News, 2 Apr. 2013, www.usnews.com/debate-club/should-ncaa-athletes-be-paid/real-scholarships-need-to-make- a-comeback. Accessed 3 May 2017.