Taylor 1 Reef Taylor Ms. Alison ENC 1102 05 May 2017 Goliath Grouper Permit Students at The University of South Florida (USF) live within close proximity to some of the best beaches the world has to offer yet may not know about the threat lurking just bellow the surface. The Goliath Grouper, a species of grouper that can grow to sizes of station wagons and weigh over 1000 pounds, can be found within a mile of the Florida coastline (NationalGeographic.org). This species once driven to the brink of extinction is now making a come back due to the overwhelming effort by the Florida Fish and Wildlife Commission (FWC) in the 1970s to impose a ban on the harvest of the species in the Florida state waters (FWC.org). To many, this may seem to be a shining glimmer of hope for the species due to its history. However, its growth is troublesome for the coastline that the students at USF visit so often. The Goliath Grouper is a territorial creature that feeds on a massive amount of key reef species every day, and over time can greatly diminish the local population of these reef fish. In 2009 a research team from Florida State University set out to find if the Goliath Grouper population was recovering at a healthy rate and in 2009 they found the species to be approaching a population density equal to that previous of 1970. That was almost eight years ago, and yet the harvest ban on the species is still in place. Many suspect that the ban is still in effect because the Goliath Grouper historically consumed bottom-dwelling crustaceans and small bait fish in large amounts, however, that seems to have changed in recent years. Now the species diet is primarily Lobster, Grouper, Snapper, and Mackerel as documented by the National Geographic research team in Taylor 2 2005 (Goliath Grouper). The New Tampa Wildlife Coalition is holding a rally for USF students to petition the FWC to replace the harvest ban with a permit program, because without change the Goliath Grouper population will continue to grow and the diet will alter even more to a point where USF students will see a decline in the beauty of the Florida coastline they hold so dear. Between the years of 1970 and 1980, the grouper population in Florida dropped dramatically affecting all species of grouper but especially the Goliath Grouper and placing the species on the critically endangered list. The Goliath Grouper species can live to 100 years and weigh up to 800lbs, resembling a small station wagon (Goliath Grouper). Many believed that the Goliath Grouper would go extinct, however, due to the Florida Fish and Wildlife implementation of a harvesting ban on the species in the 1990s. The species has seen a population comeback in recent years to what many believe to be a possible overpopulation of the Florida waters. During the 1970s the Goliath Grouper would only be found as far north as waters, however, today there is a multitude of Goliath Grouper sightings daily in the panhandle. The panhandle was initially believed to be too cold for the Goliath grouper species. Dr. Koenig, a Goliath Grouper expert at Florida State University, believes that the species has expanded its range of habitats to this new region because of global warming increasing northern waters and the over population of the species in the south Florida waters. The National Geographic research team studied the Goliath Grouper and found that the species is incredibly territorial and much of the time will stay in a localized area of 100 sq. yards for over a month before relocating for a renewed food source (Goliath Groupers). While the species is localized and territorial they are required to locate every so often because a juvenile Goliath Grouper (approximately 5-6 years old and 200-300lbs) is capable of destroying a small reef population in Taylor 3 about a month (NationalGeographic.org). With the feeding habits of a Goliath Grouper historically compiled of small crabs and injured reef fish, but in recent years the Goliath Grouper has been seen to regularly pursue and devour key reef species (Mature Lobster, Snapper, Grouper, small Sharks) creating competition with fisheries and devastating the underwater ecosystem (Koenig). Sharks, Barracuda, and Mackerel feed on juvenile Goliath Grouper, but when fully grown the Goliath predators are large Sharks and Humans; meaning that without human intervention there is not a substantial amount of natural predators to keep the population numbers at a healthy level. One of the most effective human intervention techniques that can be used to regulate a population is a permit program similar to the one used by the FWC in the northern most states. On July 15th, 2017 in front of the FWC building in downtown Tampa the New Tampa Wildlife Coalition will be hosting a rally to petition the FWC to implement a permit program on the Goliath Grouper species before it is too late. A permit program allows for the FWC to regulate the amount of grouper caught by only releasing a specific amount of permits each year. The permit must be present when harvesting the fish or else the FWC would be able to cite the fisherman. Permit programs are already in use for many other species of animal around the United States from bears in Alaska to moose in Vermont. Moose and Bear are two species that are prized hunts by many big game hunters just as many avid fishermen seek Goliath Grouper out (FWC.org). Moose and Bear in the northern states were also once hunted to rather low population numbers, but the permit programs have allowed for the FWC to change the amount of Goliath Grouper harvested. For example in years where the FWC records a decline in the population number of a species they can lower the number of permits sold in the following quarter (Shideler). The permit program also allows for a large inflow of money for the FWC to Taylor 4 conduct research and promote safe fishing practices because the permits can be changed at any price. Permits to hunt moose in Maine are in fact so rare that you have to win a lottery system to get a permit and then purchase the permit for over $5,000 (FWC.org). The New Tampa Wildlife Coalition believes a permit program should be implemented now rather than later because humans are historically to late to keep from overpopulated species causing permanent damage to the environment (i.e. Lionfish, Snakehead fish, African honey bees, pythons (Shideler)). All USF students should attend to voice their concern and sign the petition to protect the coastline so near to campus and so dear to our hearts. As the Goliath Grouper population develops dangerous new eating habits and spreads to areas of North Florida, previously unpopulated by Goliath Grouper, many starts to wonder if a harmful overpopulation is around the corner. The New Tampa Wildlife Coalition believes there is, but hopes to stop the damage before it begins by petitioning the FWC to replace the harvest ban with a permit program capable of regulating the Goliath Grouper population in the Florida waters. The New Tampa Wildlife Coalition is located near the University of South Florida in Tampa, Florida. A campus filled with environmentally conscious students who enjoy the beauty of Clearwater Beach frequently, but may not be aware of this incoming threat (Webmaster). For Clearwater Beach to stay as nice and lovely as it does there is an intricate underwater ecosystem that must run like a well-oiled machine. However, the Goliath Grouper repopulation will pose a threat to the Florida coastline if not properly controlled. Since the 1970s when the population first dipped to an unhealthy level and the FWC implemented a harvest ban, the human species has not interfered with the growth of the species. However as the population density grows to new heights, many begin to worry if the human species should begin to control the growth of the species, since humans are the primary predator of Goliath Grouper in Florida. The New Tampa Taylor 5 Wildlife Coalition hopes to keep the Goliath Grouper species from damaging the Florida coastline by petitioning the FWC to replace the harvest ban with a strict permit program that will allow for the FWC to regulate the population of the Goliath Grouper. The New Tampa Wildlife Coalition also wishes to gain the backing of an environmentally conscious school like USF to voice the concerns and help protect the local waters and coastlines (Webmaster). University of South Florida students join The New Tampa Wildlife Coalition on July 15th, 2017 at the FWC office in Downtown Tampa from 2-7pm to sign the petition and spread the word that Floridian can do something right now to protect the beautiful beaches for years to come. Taylor 6 Work Cited: Goliath  Big Fish. National Geographic, n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Goliath  Goliath Grouper. Florida Fish and Wildlife Commission, n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Koenig, Christopher C., Felicia C. Coleman, and Kelly Kingon. Pattern of Recovery of the Goliath Grouper Epinephelus itajara Population in the Southeastern  Bulletin of Marine Science 87.4 (2011): 891-911. Web. Shideler, Geoffrey S., David W. Carter, Christopher Liese, and Joseph E. Serafy. Lifting the goliath grouper harvest ban: Angler perspectives and willingness to  Fisheries Research 161 (2015): 156-65. Webmaster, University Of South Florida. USF One of Top Green  USF One of Top Green Colleges - University of South Florida. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 May 2017.