Alummoottil, 1 Alvin Alummoottil Jubalee Penuliar ENC 1102 17 April 2017 Judge What You Know Have you ever wondered how much progress has been made since the inception of the United States of America? We have gained equal rights, won numerous wars, and even gave birth to some of the most influential technological advances ever. However, through all the progress one thing that remains the same are the archaic laws that govern marijuana. Thousands of lives ruined and millions of taxpayer dollars thrown down the drain. Why? For the prosecution and attempts to prevent marijuana usage. The usage of this plant has been recorded in human history for centuries. Yet, the United Sates treats this plant as a schedule 1 drug; the most dangerous classification. While the plant does have psychoactive properties, it also provides countless patients suffering from a plethora of medical conditions with the relief they need. The purpose of the essay is to change the perception of marijuana from a drug to a medicine, and in doing so empower viewers to get involved themselves by contacting a lawmaker about a new legislation or even joining a local organization. Marijuana is referred to by many names such as Cannabis, Pot, Reefer, and many others. Cannabis, as it is otherwise called, has been cultivated and used by humans for thousands of years. Since the time of the ancient civilizations as far back as 2700 BCE, Marijuana, also known as Kush by the ancient Indians, was utilized to alleviate an array of ailments like pain, muscle spasms, insomnia, and even depression. Although marijuana has even been used in recent Alummoottil, 2 history, such as in nineteenth century America where it was used to treat a myriad of conditions ranging from gout and cholera to appetite and sexual interest (Nelson 1-2). However, with the war on drugs that began in twentieth century America marijuana was vilified and regarded as a schedule one narcotic which means it was considered dangerous. The war on drugs brought with it the federal prohibition of marijuana, and harsh consequences that penalized the offenders of these laws. In the present, marijuana is used as a therapeutic aid for medical conditions like cancer, post-traumatic stress disorder, migraines, and even glaucoma. NORML and other pro- marijuana legalization advocacy groups aim to improve the outdated marijuana legislation that currently exists. The legalization of marijuana would prove to be extremely beneficial for the country, for not only would American taxpayers save millions in prison funding, but it could prove to be extremely lucrative in terms of the jobs and new business opportunities that could come with legalization (NORML). With the potential to give suffering patients the relief they need, and a struggling economy a helpful boost the legalization of marijuana should seriously be considered as a viable solution. Another reason marijuana should be seen in a more positive light is because as a medicine it is a much safer alternative than pharmaceutical drugs, such as opioids. Nowadays nearly sixty percent of Americans rely on prescription medication to get them through their days (Dennis 1). Pharmaceutical drugs and opioids such as Oxycodone which have addictive side effects and can be abused by users. On the other hand, medical marijuana has been shown to lead to positive changes. In fact, a report published in 2014 by the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) claims enactment of statewide medicinal marijuana laws is associated with significantly lower state-level opioid overdose mortality (Armentano 2). Also, marijuana has many chemical components that are beneficial for many diseases. The most widely used Alummoottil, 3 component of marijuana used medicinal purposes is called CBD or cannabidiol. This miracle chemical proved to be a lifesaver in the case of Colorado native Charlotte Figi. Since her early days as a toddler Charlotte suffered from seizures, and after multiple diagnosis the doctors concluded that she has a rare condition called Dravet syndrome. This condition is a severe form of epilepsy, which caused her to have seizures multiple times a day with some lasting from thirty minutes to as long as multiple hours! Needless to say, this disease was taking a serious toll on her life, for the cocktail of pharmaceutical drugs that the doctors prescribed seemed to have no effect on her condition. Because the lived in Colorado, they were able to consider medical marijuana as a treatment option because Colorado has decriminalized marijuana and has approved it for used medicinally and recreationally. Although they were initially skeptical due to young age, her worsening condition made them desperate for a cure. When mother heard of a strain high in CBD the therapeutic component of marijuana, and low in THC the psychedelic component of marijuana, she was eager to meet the growers. The Stanley brothers, a group of brothers who are pioneers in the medical marijuana industry of Colorado, heard case and agreed to make a kid- friendly Cannabis oil for her. This Cannabis oil can be consumed by putting the correct dose in Charlottes food and the effects have drastically improved Charlottes condition. From a young girl who suffered from over three hundred seizures a week before using medical marijuana, to now only going through two or three per month after her use of medical marijuana, the effects have been extremely beneficial (Young 1-3). The miraculous results speak for themselves, the use of medicinal marijuana proves to be extremely beneficial for many medical conditions. Cannabis is not just another drug that people use to get high, because that would mean that one could use too much marijuana and possibly hurt themselves. However, it has been proven Alummoottil, 4 marijuana is by far the lowest risk schedule one drug in existence. In fact, according to the Huffington Post one is 150 times more likely to overdose from any other drug, than marijuana (Ferner 2). The purpose this essay is for you as a reader to change your current perception of marijuana from a schedule one drug, for marijuana is not a poison that was chemically concocted for monetary gain, but a plant that has grown on this earth for thousands of years. The legalization of this harmless plant could prove to be extremely beneficial, not only for patients who need this medicine, but for small businesses, the agriculture industry, marketing firms, and many others. There is an entire culture that is waiting to be unlocked and the untapped potential needs your help! There are many ways to help in this contemporary debate for free! You could contact your local lawmaker to support the pending bipartisan legislation that promotes the legalization of marijuana, or you could even get involved yourself by finding a local marijuana legalization advocacy group (such as NORML) and volunteering. You can do this by visitingIn doing so you can help to leave a mark on history. In summary, I am convinced that medicinal marijuana is often viewed negatively due to the unpopular stereotypes that have been associated with it over the years. This essay does not aim to support the illegal sale of marijuana to those underage, but to open the eyes of the public on the issue of medical marijuana. In doing so, I hope that the audience will create their own opinion on marijuana by striving to learn more about marijuana, getting involved in the topic themselves, and be empowering themselves to contact a lawmaker and join the movement. Only you can make an impact on the future by the actions you make today by learning more, joining the debate, and making a difference. Alummoottil, 5 Works Cited Dennis, Brady. Nearly 60 Percent of Americans the Highest Ever Are Taking Prescription  The Washington Post. WP Company, 03 Nov. 2015. Web. 02 May 2017. Ferner, Matt. Marijuana May Be The Least Dangerous Recreational Drug, Study Shows. The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 24 Feb. 2015. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Nelson, Elizabeth Marie McGhee, PhD. Medical  Salem Press Encyclopedia Of Health (2015): Research Starters. Web. 16 April. 2017. Legalize Marijuana Commercial. NORML. National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, 22 Apr. 2009. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Paul, Armentano. Working to Reform Marijuana  NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, 28 Aug. 2015. Web. 17 April. 2017. Young, Saundra. Marijuana Stops Severe  CNN. Cable News Network, 07 Aug. 2013. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.