Polk 1 Grant Polk Professor Adam Carter ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Thanks, But No Tanks Marine themed parks and aquariums are a multibillion dollar industry built upon the exploitation and suffering of marine animals. These marine mammals are often snatched away from their families and forced to learn and perform tricks while residing in a concrete and plexiglass aquarium, much too confining for their natural instincts. According to bornfree.org, there are more than 500 orcas, dolphins and other members of the dolphin family held in captivity in the United States alone. These marine mammals are subjected to the monotony of swimming in a small, circular tank and are often stricken with physical and psychological illnesses, early death rates, miscarriages, and terrifying accidents with others held captive, as well as with humans. You can help put an end to marine mammals being held in captivity by simply boycotting these marine parks. This is the most effective way to help put an end to the exploitation, abuse and neglect of these highly intelligent creatures. Urging the USDA to put pressure on these marine mammal theme parks to release health statements about their captive animals is another way to make these aquatic parks more responsible for the health and well- being of their captive mammals. According to us.whales.org, scientists have found that whales and dolphins are highly intelligent creatures. They want and need to live in complex social groups. In captivity, they will usually have been separated from their families, often in cruel hunts and some are taken when they are very young. Many of the marine mammals on display at aquariums were kidnapped from their families in the ocean. Furthermore, a large number of these majestic creatures are Polk 2 actually born in captivity, and will never know freedom. While in the wild, marine mammals, scientifically known as cetaceans, live in small groups or larger families called pods. They hunt and communicate in ways that are similar to the intelligence level of human beings. Being that they are so highly cognitive, cetaceans are easily conditioned into learning and performing tricks for rewards. Unfortunately, this is to their detriment in the animal entertainment industry, who does not consider their captivity as a cruel and unjust circumstance. For these reasons alone, we must take action by boycotting these aquatic theme parks, and demanding they reveal to the public the health records of each aquatic animal kept in captivity. The more we refuse to be entertained by marine mammals, the more the animal entertainment industry will get the message that the public is not amused. I urge you to take the first step toward eliminating animals in captivity by signing the pledge not to visit marine parks on Orca website, to confirm your stance on marine mammals in captivity. You can make your pledge right now at this website: https://theorcaproject.wordpress.com/how-to-help/take-the-pledge-not-to-visit- marine-parks/. Marine parks in the United States, such as Sea World and Miami Seaquarium, claim their marine mammals held in captivity are for research and for the education of the breeding, psychology, communication and overall conservation of these animals in the wild. The very notion that studying animals in captivity is the same as studying them in the wild is nonsense. There are many scientists who insist their research be done solely in the wild, and believe their findings to be more accurate when compared to those in captivity. For instance, studies reveal that in the wild spend 80-90% of their time under water, while in captivity, cetaceans spend 80% of their time at the surface looking for food and attention from their (awionline.org). I believe Jacques Cousteau said it best when he declared, aquarium, no Polk 3 tank in a marine land, however spacious it may be, can begin to duplicate the conditions of the sea. And no dolphin who inhabits those aquariums or one of those marine lands can be considered Because their conditions are not natural, it is logical to surmise that a marine mammal in captivity will not act naturally. Furthermore, these marine mammal theme parks train their captured mammals to perform tricks, which is another way for them to make a profit, even though these tricks are unnatural to the marine characteristics. These performances are simply a false representation of how cetaceans behave while in their natural environment, and they give children viewing the shows a wrong impression about marine behaviors. These are more reasons to never purchase a ticket to these misleading shows. We must band together in boycotting these shows for the sake of the marine mammals involved, and to avoid teaching our children misleading information about the behaviors of mammals living in the ocean Moreover, Marine mammals held in captivity have many ailments, both physical and psychological, not typically seen in the wild, therefore their quality of life is not optimal. One such ailment is termed fin This happens when a whale is not able to dive to the depths they would normally swim to in their natural setting, the ocean. As a result of spending more time at the surface, the dorsal fin flops over to one side, due to gravity pulling it down. Other ailments seen in both dolphins and whales held in captivity include skin and eye irritation due to the chlorine in the tanks, skin lesions, auditory complications, broken teeth, psychological distress, fungal infections, gastroenteritis, aggression, depression and premature death. Furthermore, several documented accidents have occurred involving marine mammals held in captivity, resulting in the death of humans. Several of these well-documented accidents happened with a killer whale held captive for 33 years named Tilikum. After he killed a trainer in Polk 4 1991 at a facility outside of the United States, SeaWorld purchased Tilikum for breeding purposes and splash performances. Over the 21 year period, he showed many signs of aggression while at SeaWorld. According to one website, stress of captivity drives Tilikum to exhibit abnormal repetitive behavior, including chewing on metal gates and the concrete sides of his much so that the most of his teeth are completely worn (seaworldofhurt.com) In addition to this, Tilikum ended up killing 2 more people, one man who snuck past SeaWorld security after closing hours in 1999, and a well-known trainer, Dawn Brancheau in 2010 during a performance. As a result of death, Tilikum was placed in a very small aquatic enclosure, where he remained in isolation for an extended period of time. He continued to suffer many ailments from that point on, and was eventually pronounced dead in January of 2017. Several months later, in March of 2017, SeaWorld announced Tilikum died with bacterial pneumonia, a common cause of death in many aquatic mammals held in captivity. For these reasons, it is pertinent the Unites States Department of Agriculture (USDA) hear our voices. Let them know that these marine parks should be held accountable for the marine well-being, and to have health records restored for the public to access. Most people are unaware of the aquatic animal entertainment procedures for capturing and keeping mammals in captivity. They do not know about the cruelties involved in training these cetaceans to perform, and the cramped tanks, much smaller than any natural ocean, that these creatures are expected to exist in. pertinent we educate others that when we buy a ticket for an aquatic mammal performance in essence we are supporting animals in captivity. Tell your friends and family, boycotting all parks involving marine mammals is the only way to send a clear message to their capturers that the act of keeping them in captivity is unjust and inhumane. Take a stand now, and pledge to never Polk 5 purchase any tickets for marine mammal performances involving whales, dolphins or other sea mammals. Send a message to the marine themed parks that you be entertained at the expense of these marine mammals by taking a pledge today to never pay for a ticket to any marine mammal entertainment establishments (link above). Additionally, you can urge the USDA to demand transparency from aquatic facilities, thereby making them responsible for each and every marine well-being while in captivity. Sign a petition to make welfare records of these captive animals public at https://www.worldanimalprotection.us.org/urge-usda- restore-full-animal-welfare-records. Without your patronage, these marine mammal parks cannot exist. time to take a stance against the aquariums. Thanks, but NO TANKS! Polk 6 Works Cited Exposed: A Veterinarian Visits  SeaWorld of Hurt. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Grimm, D. Are Dolphins Too Smart for  Science 332.6029 (2011): 526-29. Web. Jacques Yves Cousteau  BrainyQuote. Xplore, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Marine  The Orca Project. N.p., 05 Dec. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Take the  The Orca Project. N.p., 03 June 2012. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. The Fate of Captive  WDC, Whale and Dolphin Conservation. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. The Humane Society of the United  The Humane Society of the United States. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Urge the USDA to restore full animal welfare  World Animal Protection USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Wild vs.  Wild vs. Captivity Animal Welfare Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.