Tavlan 1 Tatiana Tavlan Professor Carter Composition 2 14 April 2017 People Against Animal Entertainment Most individuals have visited parks such as Sea World at least once in their lifetime in order to see the animals perform jaw-dropping tricks in their minute cages. Individuals see animals that they have never seen outside of the parks before and tend to disregard the abuse that occurs behind the scenes. An organization known as PETA (people for the ethical treatment of animals), which is the largest animal rights organization in the world, focuses on four areas where the animals suffer the most intensely for the longest period of time such as the entertainment industry. Although the organization is helping these animals tremendously, it is important that we take action as well. A protest will be held in front of the USF library on June 1 st in order to put an end to animal entertainment. Come join us and make a difference! According to seaworldofhurt.com, enslaves animals in tiny, concrete tanks at marine amusement parks around the country. Often housed in lonely isolation or with incompatible tank mates; dolphins, whales, and other animals at SeaWorld are regularly drugged to manage stress-induced aggressive behavior and relieve the endless monotony of swimming in PETA has been using a variety of tactics in order to help the animals that are held captive and being tortured on a daily basis. For example, the organization is complaining to law-enforcement officials, using celebrity engagement, and educating the public on this issue. Their main goal is to eventually terminate the use of all animals and to allow orcas, dolphins and other animals to return to seaside Tavlan 2 sanctuaries to retire. According to the previous site mentioned, in 2011, PETA, three marine-mammal experts, and two former Sea World trainers filed a suit that maintained that the five wild-caught orcas forced to perform at Sea World parks are being held as slaves. This results in direct violation of the 13 th amendment in the U.S. constitution. This was the first suit that was able to extend constitutional rights to nonhuman animals. Although many organizations and individuals are taking action in order to solve this issue, animals are still being taken away from their families and are being tortured physically and psychologically. At Sea World even the most innocent action such as petting the animals, can cause them to be exposed to foreign bacteria and pathogens, and they can become anxious, frustrated, and aggressive from the shallow tanks and exposure to constant interaction with humans. As stated by us.whales.org, 156 whales have been dragged into captivity from the wild since 1961 and at least 168 of these orcas are now dead. This does not include the 30 miscarried or stillborn calves. This terrifying statistic is what motivates individuals and organizations such as PETA to get together and take action to solve this issue. Additionally, antidepressants such as Prozac are being used in order to allow animals to be in a state of oblivion when moving from their natural habitat to places such as Sea World. In relation, animals are artificially inseminated so their offspring can be legally sold or traded to other zoos, which results in miscarriages, death at birth, or even the rejection of their young. It is significant to care about this issue because most organizations that use animals for entertainment put business and money before the lives of their animals. They spend 3% of their profits on conservation, which nearly enough to save the marine animals. It is unfair for animals to have to experience this Tavlan 3 cruel treatment just so individuals can be entertained from the interesting flips that are being performed everyday at Sea World. The lives of animals is just as important as humans and with the tragic experiences that they are involved in everyday, they deserve to be comfortable in their natural environment without being treated as if they are inanimate objects. According to peta.org 1980 PETA was formed and organized the first World Day for Laboratory Animals protest in the U.S. and the first demonstration against chicken slaughter at Arrow Live Poultry, which was subsequently closed, in Washington, Also according to peta.org 1981, undercover investigation resulted in the first conviction of an experimenter for animal abuse and the first withdrawal of federal research funds because of cruelty to Lastly, according to peta.org 1982, PETA made legal history by filing the first-ever lawsuit to become the guardian of animals used in The use of advertisements, documentaries, protests, etc. has made a tremendous difference in the animal industry. PETA uses different strategies such as ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos in order to grab the attention. This tactic has made a tremendous difference because not only does it educate individuals on the issue, but it brings an emotional appeal to them causing them participate in their protests. Less people are visiting parks, people are becoming vegans, and some refuse to wear fur for fashion purposes. As the years go by, people are beginning to acknowledge what the animals have to experience on a daily basis and are making changes in the world. The protest that is being held in front of the USF library will not only bring awareness, but it will allow parks such as Sea World to see that the money that they produce should never be their number one priority. Although using advertisements Tavlan 4 and famous people to bring awareness is extremely helpful, the only way to make a change in society is for everyone to gather together the same way PETA did with three marine-mammal experts and two former Sea World trainers. Protesting can make a huge difference but so can donating to the PETA organization in order to make the world a better place for captive animals and humans as well. The money raised will go towards the animals that are suffering and dying on factory farms, in the fur industry, in laboratories, and in circuses and other forms of entertainment. In conclusion, animals are abused everyday either from being constantly touched with many different foreign bacteria to being constantly tortured psychologically and physically. The most effective way that PETA helps benefit the issue of animal abuse in our country is by taking donations and applying them to several different animal relief techniques. They also organize protests and to raise awareness in many different cities. The protest that is being held at the USF library will allow individuals to become more educated about this issue and will slowly prevent some people from visiting parks that advocate animal entertainment. The more people who participate in the protest and donate to PETA, the more positive changes there will be in order to put an end to the cruel actions that are being performed on these innocent animals. Tavlan 5 Work Cited About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. About Campaign Against  SeaWorld of Hurt. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Aquariums and Marine  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.  Animals and Entertainment. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.