Brooke Anderson Ms. Tisdale Composition 1 9 April 2017 Financial Benefits of Legalizing Marijuana Medical marijuana is a debate sweeping across the nation. Some states have passed it medicinally, while others have gone all the way to legalizing it for recreational purposes. This is a major hot topic in America since it is still federally illegal. Many people can see both positive outcomes of the legalization and drawbacks of it. However, with the financial benefits of passing Marijuana everywhere this should not even be up for debate. Since the legalization of recreational marijuana there has been many benefits with the tax money collected from dispensaries. In states where marijuana is legal, marijuana and smoking accessories can be taxed up to 25%. In just the first two years of legalization in Colorado they have collected 45 million dollars in tax revenue (Vaida 5). Other states, seeing their benefits, have been following the lead. In this past election California, Massachusetts, Nevada, and North Dakoda all voted to legalize it recreationally. There are now eight states in the U.S. that have had the majority of citizens want it legal (Underhill 1). The use of recreational marijuana should be legalized because of the financial benefits it would provide for America. The first state to legalize marijuana recreationally was Colorado. They legalized this in the beginning of 2012. The first year that it was legalize brought in 40 million dollars in annual revenue. This is so much money that they can use in order to fix public schools. In Colorado marijuana is only taxed by 35% and it still continues to bring in a ton of profits (Goltz 3). All of this money will be going back to the communities in Colorado. Since marijuana is still federally illegal none of the money can be collected by the federal government and therefore it is really in the hands of the people who live in Colorado. In 2014, which has been two years since the legalization, marijuana is still bringing in just as much profit. Colorado collected about 76 million dollars in tax revenue in 2014. If the industry were to keep growing at this rate Colorado would have over 1 billion dollars in tax revenue in 2016. The next state to legalize marijuana recreationally was Oregon. They legalized it in the middle of 2013. Oregon taxes their sales of marijuana by weight. Each ounce of weed has a $50 tax (Vida 6). In the first three months of legalization Oregon has made 10.5 million dollars in tax revenue. It was predicted to bring in 42 million dollars in its first year. This state has decided to use this money in order to find ways to regulate the drug, so its people are safe but they still receive the financial advantages of the legalization. The surplus of tax money in this state has already been put to use to benefit the industry even more. In this state marijuana was the largest producer of tax revenue. Other products which collect sales taxes are not as beneficial to the economy as the recreational legalization of marijuana was. Another state to legalize the use of recreational marijuana in 2015 was Alaska. They tax their marijuana the same way Oregon does, by taxing each ounce up to $50. In the first month of their legalization they gain 81 thousand dollars in taxes. This can show how even marijuana being legalized for even the shortest amount of time can benefit a economy. They plan to use half of their money on groups that keep people out of prison for small crimes, and the other half will go to their general tax fund (Taylor 4). This will be used for anything the states decide to use their tax profits on. It could be debated that legalizing the recreational use of marijuana is unsafe, but studies have shown that this is not really the case. Smoking marijuana is less harmful on the body than drinking alcohol (McGinty 3). Alcohol has worse health benefits and is more addictive than marijuana, yet is legal everywhere in the United States. Also there has been no proof that the legalization of marijuana has caused more car crashes, which is what some people feared. This is because stoned drivers are typically a lot safer than drunk drivers (Jensen 1). If alcohol is allowed to be legal then so should marijuana because marijuana is safer than alcohol. The finical benefits of legalizing recreational marijuana outweigh the that people believe will happen. Enough states have legalized it, where we can see the benefits already taking place. Colorado, Oregon, and Alaska all show positive benefits from passing the law to legalize marijuana recreationally. Other states have already started to follow in their paths and so should the rest of the united states. Works Cited Goltz, Nachshon, and Ekaterina Bogdanov. Lessons from Washington and Colorado: the potential financial gains of recreational marijuana to  Canada-United States Law Journal 2016: 126. Academic OneFile. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Jensen, Randal. California Dreams Of Taxing Pot. (Cover  Bond Buyer 374.33408 (2010): 1-31. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. McGinty, Emma E., et al. Public Perceptions Of Arguments Supporting And Opposing Recreational Marijuana  Preventive Medicine (2017): ScienceDirect. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Taylor, Kimberly, et al. An analysis of the accounting and financial effects of inconsistent state and federal laws in the recreational marijuana  Journal of Legal, Ethical and Regulatory Issues, vol. 19, no. 2, 2016. Underhill, Wendy. Ballot Bonanza: Voters Took On The Role Of Policymakers For A Slew Of Issues, From Capital Punishment To  State Legislatures 10 (2016): 14. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Vaida, Jeremy M. The Altered State Of American Drug  Tax Lawyer 4 (2015): 761. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.