1 Daniel Harley Campbell English Composition II 4 May, 2017 Refrain and Sustain Electrical power over the past few decades has turned more into an essential resource for communities and careers rather than a business good to provide. Beyond this, energy consumers are also using more electricity, like in 2015 when the average American used almost 30,000 Watthours of electricity per day Energy Information Because of this electrical dependency, electricity providers try to generate power as efficiently as possible, but only a few are accepting their responsibility to also be environmentally efficient. From this, we are the ones that fuel our destruction by demanding more from fossil fuel industries, like Shell, who deceive us into furthering their private profits while we and our planet suffer the true cost of their pollution. We are at a point where green is not enough, but instead a light to go beyond and achieve energy while rehabilitating our planet back to health. By joining together as energy consumers, we can emphasize state environmental policies and shift consumer demand to finally magnify sustainable energy sources. This is the key for us and future generations, our sons and granddaughters, to live a bright and healthy life. As electricity needs surges, many power industries prioritize generating energy to maximize financial profit. This is basic economics: as demand goes up, supply should go up. But producing energy is different. Many US fossil fuel industries do not regard pollution as a production cost since the major penalty, if enforced, is only a small fee that is almost always 2 outweighed by the obtained profit from doing such crimes guidance, At the end, these companies take more of your money while you then suffer the cost of pollution build up. But now energy consumers want them to take more responsibility. As of 2016, 53% of US adults agree that Energy Industry Leaders should be involved in policy decisions related to global climate change, which follows 56% for the general public to also have a major voice (Funk, Cary). But many powerful energy stakeholders, almost all in fossil fuels, instead view this, your opinion and good will, as an annoyance. Although these industries will still have a net positive cash flow from increased consumption, once policies are enacted to adjust production procedures to take better care of you, their private profits will projectively decrease from what it could be. This projected gap is where many parties against safety and environmental policies argue that they hinder businesses. But they never furthering this argument to the environmental destruction and disrespect to your well-being since we, following their rationale, are worth less than a few extra dollars. Nonetheless, energy producers recognize that we want a future. This message, whether supported by substantial efforts or not, is now being used by these crooks in advertisements to deceive new customers. Shell, a top global energy provider that mostly processes natural gas and other fossil fuels, is trying to take a middle position on this. In the provided advertisement, Shell caters the of a greener using rhetorical appeals and metaphorical imagery. Logos is referred to with depicting solar panels and wind turbines (although including the word supports that these greener sources would be used with present natural gas processes). The text then creates a general causality that will result in results. But apparently only Shell can fulfill these desired results since it committed to 3 creating a brighter energy future for  This use of Ethos and Pathos addresses Shell as the only one you need and assures a  choice for  energy. Overall, this ad pushes the audience to think more of the future, Kairos, then persuades the present actions to align with future goals. Although this advertisement tries to convey an engaging message for an enhanced future while showcasing small investments in greener wind energy, this is not enough. The environmentally harmful production methods that some companies use actually turn off some consumers. With 97% of actively researching climate scientists reporting that major climate change is manmade and should be addressed as a global crisis, many energy consumers are persuaded against using energy that corrodes our planet with fatale pollutants (Tenenbaum). With this, they instead support green and sustainable energy processes. Sustainable energy is sometimes unknowingly used interchangeably with or energy, but they are different. As Mercedes Martty, an architectural journalist from Buenos Aires University of Architecture, explains, sustainable energy has potential for long-term maintenance of well-being, which in turn depends on the well-being of the natural world and the responsible use of natural This is different than just because sustainability accounts for more factors to the overall process rather than just addressing the application of one substance over another. Mercedes also provides an example by explaining how bamboo flooring that is from a renewable resource is green, but most bamboo flooring is made in China and transported by ships and trucks to different countries all around the world. The air pollution caused and the fuel used to transport the material turn it into the opposite of a sustainable Although the use of natural gas from Shell is cheaper and less toxic than crude oil and coal, it is not better 4 since the company then spends a lot of resources continuously shipping gas and energy containers around the world natural In contrast, sustainable energies, like wind or solar, only need mechanical maintenance periodically since they instead depend on natural wind or light. With our understanding of greener techniques, we can now go beyond and pursue truly sustainable energy sources that are both environmentally and economically efficient. We need to evolve from our fossil fuel dependency into a sustainable energy enlightenment. With our global health at risk, you may ask why we have not heard of or engaged in sustainable energy sooner? Well, they have always been in the background, like Enercon, one of the top and growing wind turbine manufacturers in the world. Progress is also growing, like in 2015 when wind processing avoided 132 million metric tons of carbon dioxide (CO2), which is the equivalent of reducing power-sector CO2 emissions by 6% while avoiding the consumption of over 73 billion gallons of water Wind But many other sustainable energy providers are crippled by the lack of outside funding and a more public consumer market to grow from, which, in contrast, contributes to the fossil fuel large success. From this, sustainable energy is often criticized for not being more financially efficient. With this short-term obstacle of higher initial costs for sustainable energy, rather than long-term costs where they succeed, fossil fuel industries, like Shell, take the lead and, at the end, consumer preference. But this is where we come in. With their tight grip on public energy markets from advertisements and low costs, fossil fuel corporations think of us energy consumers as an independent source of income since we need their energy no matter what. But the other side of this coin is rarely revealed as it can flip this relationship because they actually depend on us. We are the ones funding their businesses, 5 paying with our hard earn money, so why we get the care that we deserve? In a free market, consumer control is a powerful method that can move energy stakeholders to abide safety and environmental policies while we cross over into using and growing sustainable energy sources. With this flood of consumer interest, sustainable energy providers will now not only have enough funds to further develop in environmental efficiency, but also allows them to become financially efficient and lower their consumer costs now that they have an increased market. So make the change now with us! Find your local home wind or solar cell company, drive yourself to success with a clean electric car, and let us make our own future where we and future generations, our sons and granddaughters, can live a bright and healthy life. 6 Work Cited Funk, Cary. Politics of Climate: Public views on climate change and climate Peer Research Center. October 4, 2016. http://www.pewinternet.org/2016/10/04/public-views-on-climate-change-and-climate-sci Accessed 10 Mar, 2017. Martty, Mercedes. Difference Between Green and Sourceable, October 6th, 2015. Web. January 29, 2017. Tenenbaum, Laura. consensus: climate is Climate Change. 28 Jan . Accessed 25 Feb, 2017 natural Shell, 2016. . Accessed Jan 29, 2017. Energy Information Energy Information Administration. 18 Oct 2016, , Accessed: 25 Feb, 2017. Wind Industry Fourth Quarter 2016 Market Wind Energy Association. Nov. 11, 2017. . Accessed: 25 Feb, 2017 7 Image 1: http://www.northernmonkey.gallery/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/shell-ads-new2-02.jpg