Dhanashree1 Dhanashree Atul Rawalgaonkar Professor Erika Staiger ENC Composition II 4/30/2017 USF STUDENTS AGAINST GENEMETICALLY MODIFIED ORGANISMS Genetically modified organisms (GMOs) are hybrids produced by artificially mixing DNA or genetic material of two or more species with the use of biotechnology. Genetically modified organisms are not modified by traditional methods like cross fertilization over generations. According to Kruft who is a legal research assistant, introducing drastic changes in the genetic makeup of organisms can have an adverse effect on the environment and humans (1). Research reveals that GM crops pose environmental risks that include disturbed biodiversity, and crop pervasiveness. GM crops also pose risks to human health. Considering the detrimental effects of GMOs on the environment and human health, people should act against genetically modified organisms and support a sustainable living. As responsible citizens, it is the responsibility to ensure a more sustainable environment in the future. young adults are future, therefore as responsible young adults, USF students should make an effort to act against genetically modified organisms. USF students can be a part of Eat Organic, Eat Healthy Association (EOEH) which is a nonprofit organization established at USF to support organic products. The organization implements many programs and activities that include gardening drive, setting up an organic garden at USF, and establishing an organic sandwich shop. Just like charity begins at home, change also begins at home. USF students can buy organic products over genetically modified products in order to act against GMOs, and take their first step towards a more sustainable living. Dhanashree2 GM crops can have detrimental effects on the environment that include species invasiveness, disturbed biodiversity, and deteriorating health and immune system of animals injected with GMOs. According to Kruft who is a legal research assistant, can lead to pesticide resistant weeds and insects forcing farmers to use more toxic chemicals (Kruft 4). Bovine growth hormone (BGH) is produced by a pituitary glands which enables the cow to produce milk. Injecting cows with a genetically modified version of the hormone called rBGH to produce more milk than the natural capacity causes udder infections which are then treated with antibiotics every other week. This eventually deteriorates the health and immunity (Mather 47). Gene transfer always takes place between sexually compatible species. Artificially exchanging genes between species that are not sexually compatible can lead to species displacement and extinction which disturbs the biodiversity in nature. Genetically modified organisms can naturally hybridize with other species producing a wild hybrid that has biological advantage over other native species. Therefore, GMOs are extremely invasive and can overtake an entire ecosystem destroying natural biodiversity (Tsatsakis et al. 2). Genetically modified organisms pose risks to human health that include cancer, mortality, and human cell disruption. Professor Mather from the University of South Australia puts light on adverse effects of GMOs on human health. Mather cites a study by Professor Joe Cummins of the University of Western Ontario which suggests that Bt (genetically modified form of biological pesticide) can cause severe digestive problems and chronic diseases like fecal incontinence (43). The rBGH given to cows is linked to breast, and prostate cancer. Milk from cows injected with rBGH has high levels of fats and cancer causing compounds, as well as low levels of proteins (Mather 47). According to the article Testing Methods for Food Contaminants and Dhanashree3 toxins found in genetically modified organisms for pest resistance are noxious to human cells and health (Chiou et al. 2251). Another study published in the International Journal of Biological sciences by European Union experts suggests that genetically modified organisms can contain pesticide residues having human cellular endocrine disruptors. According to European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), GMOs contain toxins that are detrimental to human health and immunity. Therefore, considering the side effects of genetically modified organisms, it is necessary for the community to act against GMOs. Eat Organic, Eat Healthy Association (EOEHA) was established in 2000 at University of South Florida, and has been working ever since to highlight the ill effects of genetically modified food. The organization encourages USF students to choose organic diet and products over genetically modified produce by conducting various activities and drives. EOEHA established the Organic Gardening Drive at USF in 2005. The drive aims to educate students about how they can chose an organic diet, and to engage students in activities that support organic products. As a part of the drive, volunteers conduct information sessions that give a free crash course on kitchen gardening. The course includes instructions on gardening for easy vegetables including lettuce, spinach and radishes as well as herbs like lavender, mint, and basil. The course also explains importance of using organic soil, seeds, manure and pest control over chemical pesticides and genetically modified seeds. In order to motivate students to set up their own organic kitchen gardens, EOEHA sells organic vegetable plants like tomatoes, lettuce, spinach and herbs at minimal rates compared to other nurseries. Volunteers personally assist students who want to set up their own organic container gardens. The gardening drive is also involved in planting trees on USF campus using organic saplings that are GMO free as well as organic soil, and manure. Dhanashree4 Another initiative by EOEHA is the organic sandwich shop. The organization looks forward to establish an organic sandwich shop on USF campus that would serve sandwiches made of fresh bread made at USF. The shop would use vegetables from the USFs organic garden and serve only organic food free of GMOs. The shop would also offer jobs with flexible schedule to USF students. The organization is gathering funds, and welcomes new members who want to join the cause. EOEHA has been working on this project since 2015, and plans to execute the scheme by 2018 after it has collected enough donations, funds, and members. The shop manifests how USF students can take charge of their diet and opt for organic food even when they not having home cooked food. It is the responsibility to ensure the sustainability of the environment they live in. In light of the research and evidence found against GMOs, one can conclude that genetically modified organisms are a threat to the environment and humans. Damage caused by GMOs cannot be restored. A healthy living is a happy living. By choosing to go organic, people are setting an example of sustainability for future generations. As responsible citizens, people should protect the environment and take actions against genetically modified food. USF students can play their share by educating themselves, and the community about GMOs. They can take their first step towards sustainability by getting involved in organizations that support organic products. Nature is governed by its own laws. If we protect nature, nature will protect us. Defy its laws by altering them, and it will show mankind its fury! Dhanashree5 Works Cited Chiou, Jiachi, et al. REVIEW: Rapid Testing Methods for Food Contaminants and  Journal of Integrative Agriculture, vol. 14, 01 Nov. 2015, pp. 2243-2264. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/S2095-3119(15)61119-4. GMO legislation - Food Safety - European  Food Safety. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Spiroux de Dominique Cellier, Christian Emilie Clair, Robin Mesnage, Gilles-Eric Debate on Gmos Health Risks After Statistical Findings in Regulatory  International Journal of Biological Sciences, Vol 6, Iss 6, Pp 590-598 (2010), no. 6, 2010, p. 590. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsdoj&AN=edsdoj.f614ea0c4148ee9d3ef5020e1aa776&site=eds-live. Mather, Robin. The Threats from Genetically Modified Foods: Demand for Regulation and Labeling of GM Products Is Growing as Evidence of Dangerous Side Effects  Mother Earth News, no. 251, 2012, p. 42. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsgbe&AN=edsgcl.289214955&site=eds-live. Tsatsakis, Aristidis M., et al. Environmental Impacts of Genetically Modified Plants: A  Environmental Research, 08 Mar. 2017. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.envres.2017.03.011.