Allhim1 Fahad Allhim Ins. Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 30 April 2017 The Impact of International Students in the U.S. Nowadays, a country that has a significant number of international students is seen as a developed country. Indeed, the United States is evaluated as the largest education provider to international students. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) defines the term of international students as students who have left their countries and have gone to another one for educational purposes. International students play a principal part in the United States economy and Higher Education; while international students are paying for their college tuition, they are also helping some academic programs which are dependent on them to boost their research and educational aids in sciences and technology fields. Moreover, international students are super impactful on domestic students because local students have fabulous opportunities to discover new cultures intimately. Even though, some believe international students are only one resource out of several that the US uses to strengthen itself economically, culturally and educationally. So, missing international students would not affect the U.S. significantly. Nevertheless, if international students stopped coming to the US, that would lead to having dramatic declines and massive impacts on the economy, education, and culture of the United States. It is believed by some that international students are not organized as one of primary financing sources of the US, so the government of the US should conclude wasting their funds in establishing policies for international students. In fact, Obst declared that international education Allhim2 was classified as the 5th largest source of financing U.S. budget according to The U.S. Department of Commerce. More specifically, in 2001 there were unceremoniously 16 million students who had enrollments in several universities and colleges around the US. Also, in 2013, 819,644 international students in the United States have played an undoubted role in supplying an entirety of more than 24 billion dollars, which has considerably increased the economy of the US (Egnatios, Mielke, et al). Another aspect that leads to upgrading economy of the US which is considered to be the living expense. Schoch says as the amount of money that foreign students collectively bring into the United States to pay for their education and to support themselves while they (and in some cases, their families) are (4). In other words, the living expense of international students and their family members can provide bigger contribution than international tuition to U.S. economy. So, the government of the US does not waste any money on creating new policies for international students, but also they prevent their market share of international student from being declined. Unfortunately, the US is in a competitive challenge with other international educators that have put a lot of effort in attracting international students to study in their countries. Thus, the United States is highly motivated to keep developing and enhancing their policies and legislation in favor of sustaining their market share of international students. Some people might think having international students in campuses is considered to be insignificant because having them do not benefit education system and faculty in the United States under any circumstance. Nevertheless, research was done by Sheila Biddle that included various studies that declared international students had done a great job with sharpening and improving fieldwork and faculty. For instance, there was a high percentage of international medical graduates have been participating in refining the U.S. healthcare system. Allhim3 Above of that, Sheila says must internationalize in order to educate their students for global citizenship, to keep pace with other peers, to better serve the national and international community, and to remain great (7).In other words, the universities are stimulated to keep improving and elevating their academic level in order to save their market share of international students from decreasing. Additionally, government of the US and institutions of Higher Education classify international students as a striking element in campuses due to the large percentage of them in the US universities. According to Pandit who believes that the core reason for increasing the interest of institution of higher education in international students is their great effectiveness in proceeding research in different fields. Thus, we can tell that initiations of Higher Education need to have international students to enhance and upgrade the quality of their studies and academic level due to the various perspectives that contain. Some people may think having international students in western classroom with domestic students would most likely make uncomfortable environment for them because international students tend to interact only with who shares their cultural background. Indeed, international students give the local students free opportunities to be more knowledgeable and educated only by communicating with individuals from dissimilar nationalities. Similarly, the international students have to have involvements with Americans which would influence them culturally and socially. Moreover, Lauren Moloney-Egnatios announces that IIE President Dr. Allan Goodman said that international students are a great help for domestic students the cultural differences and historical experiences that divide us, as well as the common values and humanity that unite As a result, both of domestic and international students will develop a robust communication system which causes to have a better understanding of other perspectives and stop prejudging unreasonably. All things considered, we can say international and local students Allhim4 can get along and work with each other in a pleasant and suitable atmosphere. Although this may be true that international students interact and connect with each other rather than getting engaged with domestic students that happen due to cultural barriers. Nonetheless, at the beginning of 2015, Emmanuel E. Akanwa reports the researchers came up with a solution for the communication issue between the domestic and international students which is design of team work has a strong influence on how international and home students work and learn (274). All things consider, having international students in domestic classrooms would surely promote to have a better understanding of other perspectives and stop prejudging unreasonably and create pleasant and suitable atmosphere to study. In conclusion, if international students stopped coming to the US, that would lead to have dramatically reduces and huge effects on the economy, education, and culture of the United States. The U.S government awareness of the significance of international students had apparently changed when they noticed that international students are considered to be notionally a powerful financing source to any economy. Also, they play a certain role in enhancing and improving the education system and faculty in the United States. Another effect of international students is cultural impact where international students give the local students free opportunities to be more knowledgeable and educated only by communicating with individuals from different nationalities. All of these factors lead to the understanding that international students are a serious power which influences the U.S. economically, culturally and educationally. Now could you imagine how miserable the US would be without having international students?! Allhim5 Work Cited Akanwa, Emmanuel E. International Students in Western Developed Countries: History, Challenges, and  Journal of International Students, vol.3 2015: 271-300. Academic OneFile. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Jourdini, My Mustapha. The Impact of International Students on American Students and Faculty at an Appalachian  2012. Moloney-Egnatios, Lauren, Gretchen Mielke, Julie Trinh, and Monika Young. The International Student Journey in the United States and the Netherlands: A Comparative  Rep. School of International Service, 5 May 2014. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Obst, Daniel, and Joanne Forster. Perceptions of European Higher Education in Third Countries Outcomes of a Study by the Academic Cooperation Association (ACA) Rep. the Institute of International Education (IIE), 2005. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Pandit, Kavita. The Importance of International Students on Our  Yearbook of the Association of Pacific Coast Geographers, Vol.69. (2007): 156-159. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Schoch, Lynn, and Jason Baumgartner. The Economic Benefits of International Education to the United . Rep. NAFSA: Association of International Educators, 2004. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.