Mirakhmedova 1 Komila Mirakhmedova Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 9 April 2017 The Effects of Divorce on Children and Adults Divorce has always been considered one the most stressful moments in the life of adults and children. There are a lot of negative outcomes which are fully due to the stress associated with marital disruption, such as: risk behavioral problems, attitude towards future romantic and social relationships, psychological well-being, sometimes it can also cause mental break up which ends with suicide. Although, and adjustment to marital disruption varies, depending on the individual and the environment. Nevertheless, it has caused mostly negative outcomes. Many studies have contrasted children with separated parents and children with continuously married parents on a variety outcomes. Besides, well-being, behavioral problems, mental health issues there are negative outcomes for children such as: school grades, educational attainment, and social isolation. Separation is likewise bringing up weaker enthusiastic ties with parents, particularly with fathers. According to Paul R.Amato who experienced childhood in the family with separated parents usually get less education, less income, are more likely to have non-marital birth are more depressed and have lower levels of (12). Besides, relying on the results of the survey carried out by Paul R.Amato they report more issues in their own romantic relationships and furthermore observe their marriages end in divorce. Mirakhmedova 2 Journal of American Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers states, fathers have become more heavily involved in the daily activities and the physical care of their children, and as more mothers have resumed working full time in the pre-school years, shared parenting after parents separate has become more common (81). Shared parenting plan is playing important role in the life of child after parents got divorced, and relying on many surveys carried out, children who are raised up in shared parenting have better outcomes, less mental problems and are more happy than those children who are brought up in solo parenting even when there were a conflicts or where one of the parents had been to share. Divorce rates throughout the years illustrate that a considerable number of children are experiencing family disruption every year. Geir Gustavsen says has shown that an experiences in an early life may cause serious consequences later in generally called risk behavioral problems (474). The potential instability and insecurity could induce substance abuse, crime and low educational outcomes. Different age groups are affected in different level, some have mental health problems, such us scariness of society, relationships and become fully introverted, some have risk behavioral problems. According to Rodolofo M.Nayga divorce may affect outcomes through a number of mechanisms. These include the emotional impacts on the child and the change in family structure, change in economic resources available to achieve the best outcomes and change in parental inputs (e.g., guidance, amounts of direct and indirect time spent with (474). Most of these studies assume that parental divorce causes decline in child well-being because a separation leads to a decline in parental resources available to the child. Mirakhmedova 3 However the loss of resources sometimes depends on the level of resources. Parents with more resources available may be better able to provide a safe and stable lifestyle for child after parental separation. As a result, the negative effects might partly be reduced, so they can keep the house they were living in before, can stay at the same school and play with neighborhood friends. The potential instability and insecurity could induce substance abuse, crime and low educational outcomes. Different age groups are affected in different level, some have mental health problems, such us scariness of society, relationships and become fully introverted, some have risk behavioral problems. According to the results of the survey, in particular children aged 12-18 years, experiencing parental separation were more frequently involved in binge drinking, alcohol consumption, tobacco and marijuana use than their counterparts from families. All these frequencies increased as they grew older. Fanie Collardeu says, parental divorce can exert long-term consequences on attitude toward marriage and (24). The survey that has been carried out by the author illustrated that pretty high percentage of people who grew up in divorced families are having pretty much problems in their future families and end up with divorce, other part have families at all, and pretty low percent of those young adults are happy in their marriages. People who are having problems in their marriage are, by statistics are having girlfriends on side, they are in the theory that every marriage is disrupting in the end. Moreover, by statistics provided in the article by Fanie Collardeu, men are more likely to stay single in an adulthood, it supports an idea that women are better recovering after negative experience from childhood. Mirakhmedova 4 Although there are so many arguments and evidence of negative outcomes of marital separation there are also some positive effects of divorce. Naomi Richards says, course there is going to be some turbulence and adjustment for the whole family and in some parental separation the process is harrowing, exhausting and a long drawn out one but sometimes divorce can be the best thing for everyone (3). Divorce can be a positive thing in the family where conflicts are day to day things, especially when children are exposed to violence and abusive substances. Being in an environment where there lack of respect and trust is not mentally healthy for child. On a more superficial level when parents start living in separate houses the children may be introduced to new children their age so they may have more friends. Parents eventually may get re-married or co-habit with someone who also has children. For a child that is an only child or wants more siblings this can be a good thing. Divorce can sometimes bring out the best in children especially older children who have siblings. They want to protect their younger sisters and brothers and do so by making sure they are okay and being compassionate towards them. It can bring out a maturity and strength beyond their years. Children of divorced parents can also have a better understanding of life. They can be more helpful in nature, caring and tolerant because of their experience. Even though there are also some positive effects of marital seperation, depending on many researches, statistics and facts provided in the essay, divorce has caused mostly negative outcomes in the lives of children and adults. Main effects are psychological issues, risk behavioral problems, pessimistic attitude to future romantic or social relationships, sometimes even suicide. To sum up, divorce is one of the most stressful moments in the lives of any person not depending on age. Mirakhmedova 5 Work Cited Amato, Paul R. consequences of divorce for adults and children: An Druvstvena istrazivanja 1 23 (2014): 5-20. Academic OneFile. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Amato, Paul R., Sobolewski, Juliana M. Effects of Divorce and Marital Discord on Adult Psychological American Sociological Review 66 (2001): 900 921. Web. Astrup, Aske, and B. Pedersen, Carsten. Risk Between Adolescence and Midlife in People Who Experienced Separation From One or Both Parents During Collardeau, Fanie, and Marion Endrenberg. Divorce and Attitudes and Feelings toward Marriage and Divorce in Emerging Adulthood: New Insights from a Multiway-Frequency Journal of European Psychology Students 7.1 (2016): 24-33. Web. Gustavsen, Geir Wahler. Effects of Parental Divorce on Teenage Risk Behaviors: Incidence and  Journal of Family and Economic Issues 37.3 (2016):474-487. Web. Tracle O. Afifi, Jonathan Boman. Relationship Between Child Abuse, Parental Divorce and Lifetime Mental Disorders and Suicidality in a Nationally Representative Adult Child Abuse and Neglect 33.3 (2009):139-147. Web