Salazar 1 Paola Andrea Salazar Ins. Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 9 April 2017 Interpretation of Gun Rights Gun rights are part of the Bill of Rights in the Second Amendment that was established in order to protect private property during the Civil War. During these years it was a very helpful law for people that had to deal daily with their enemies and were constantly exposed to danger. However, since the last five years, gun rights have had a different approach than expected because of the amount of mass shootings that have been taking place in the United States. Because of the amount of people that are armed and do not use guns wisely, the crime rate has increased because of the violence that has been promoted. As Mr. Bogus mentions in his article: rise of production of firearms has increased the sales of guns, as a consequence, it has grown the crime (451). As a result, gun rights have motivated violence in the country and Sandy Hook mass shooting happened due to lack of regulations and supervision that this Bill of Rights has had. 2012 was the year that Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown mass shooting happened affecting Obama agenda. As Allen Rostron mentions in his article, was easy for the Obama administration to ignore guns because the public and the media were not particularly focused on them. Attention to the gun issue has waxed and waned over the years, surging in response to notorious incidents such as political assassinations or horrific mass (330). Because of the reports that now the media gave to this mass shooting, Obama was forced to present a law project in which he wanted to take actions to those people who sell guns and try to avoid the legal requirements that are needed to have a Salazar 2 license to sell firearms, furthermore, the media controlled the executive actions regardless to this subject. The press was focused on questioning Americans about the problems that the Second Amendment has caused due to firearms ownership, so because of the pressure that they were putting on politicians, some states had to enforce gun ban laws. As researcher Cody Jacobs said, Newtown tragedy led to a nationwide push for stronger gun control laws, including bans on assault weapons and large capacity ammunition magazines. Several states passed laws either strengthening existing bans on assault weapons and large capacity ammunition magazines or enacting new (240). However, these laws have to be approved by the Supreme Court and in many cases, they do not approve them because they go against the Second Amendment. The Supreme Court has had to get involved more than once in cases where the state made an unconstitutional decision that goes against the Second Amendment, even before Sandy Hook mass shooting. According to Mr. Blundi, Second Amendment was finally carefully interpreted by the Supreme Court in District of Columbia v. Heller in 2008 and McDonald v. City of Chicago in 2010. In the first case, a District of Columbia handgun ban was challenged. The central issue of the case was whether the Second Amendment protected an individual right to keep and bear arms. In McDonald, a similar law was challenged, and the Court was to determine if the Second Amendment had been incorporated as a protection against state and local (338). As a consequence, after the Sandy Hook mass shooting, the Supreme major concern was to evaluate carefully the laws that passed in some states and were unconstitutional by the federal government. Salazar 3 Organizations and lawyers in the country have questioned the Supreme authenticity because of the misinterpretation of the Bill of Rights and the intervention that has taken into others states. Now there exists a dispute whether the Supreme Court is doing the best for the country or if it has other interests, as some Americans and analysts share in the media. Most of the interviews and news have supported the creation of organizations and projects that want restrictions and regulations to the Second Amendment, however some of the laws regardless to the Second Amendment have not passed in Congress. Even though new projects have been rejected, perspective about gun rights is very broad. Nevertheless, Mr. Bennett explains that even with the political debate that has been happening, most of the Americans believe that like many other rights, no judge or court can take away that right from them. On the other hand, other lawyers as Mr. Rizer have another point of view with these projects that endorse gun rights regulations. He proposes that people should receive training and have a guided practice before they have the permission to using a gun, and endorsing regulations to the Second Amendment is something that will not happen soon because it takes a lot of time to change a law that the Funding Fathers wrote. He also mentions that the recent sniper attacks have emotionally convinced the citizens that the Second Amendment should have regulations, but making changes to public policies because of emotions can be dangerous. Even though a solution for the violence promoted by guns could be the one argued by Mr. Rizer, it does not guarantee that the problems of high crime rate and mass shootings will stop happening because people can borrow these arms from a friend if they do not want to do the training required and it will not solve the problem of violence. More concerning, this could lead to the creation of groups that could exchange guns for money in order to Salazar 4 make people skip the training and make this solution a mafia instead. By taking into account regulations, it could be illegal to borrow guns from other people and in that way violence will not be promoted. Finally, Sandy Hook generated a lot of concern among Americans and Sandy Hook Promise Organization was created in order to honor all the victims of gun violence and promote gun right regulations. Many national schools have lived the impact of mass shootings such as Umpqua Community College and Oikos University, putting in risk the life of many citizens. Sandy Hook mass shooting was a wake up call for the federal government and for the media. Since then it has had a big impact in opinion. Gun rights have changed Americans perspective about the regulations that should have due to the support and constant reportage about the consequences of these mass shootings. Salazar 5 Works Cited Bennet, Matthew. How the Debate over Gun Rights Ignores Albany Government Law Review.1.2 (2008): 483-496. Alba NY Law School. Web. 8 April 2017. Blundi Sturzenegger, Thiago Luiz. Second Fixed Meaning and Multiple Southern Illinois University Law Journal. 37.2 (2013): 337-393. Southern Illinois University. Web. 8 April 2017. Bogus, Carl T. Control and Cities: Public Policy and Albany Government Law Review. 1.2 (2008): 441-482. Albany NY Law School. Web. 8 April 2017. Jacobs, Cody. The Popularity Contest: A Proposal for Second Amendment of Tennessee Law Review. 83.2 (2016): 231-289. The University of Tennessee Knoxville. Web. 8 April 2017. Rizer, Arthur L.; Ruhl, Jesse Matthew; Wier, Mikel Control: Targeting Rationality in a Loaded Kansas Journal of Law & Public Policy. 13.3 (2004): 413-483. The University of Kansas. Web. 8 April 2017. Rostron, Allen. New State Ice Age for Gun Harvard Law & Policy Review. 10.2 (2016): 327-360. American Constitution Society for Law and Policy. Web. 8 April 2017.