Topole 1 Rachael Topole Professor Krista Townsend ENC 1102 30 April 2017 The Importance of Adult Stem Cell Research Heart disease is the number one killer of both men and women in the United States, causing one in every four deaths (Heart). With heart disease this prominent, there is a high chance it will affect either you, a loved one, or someone close to you. If there was a way to reduce the chances of this happening to someone you know, you want to support it? Adult stem cells, cells with unspecialized functions that can be to become tissue- or organ-specific cells with special (U.S. Department), have the potential to help reduce the rate of heart disease, as well as a variety of other diseases that commonly plague those in the United States. There are a variety of adult stem cell types that can contribute to researching how to cure a plethora of diseases, but your support, whether in the form of a donation, celebrating a holiday, or becoming personally involved, must be given to ensure this research reaches its full potential. Research opposed to adult stem cells is present in the push for embryonic stem cells to have greater funding. Embryonic stem cells are more easily manipulated to become the desired type of cell, however the ethical issues and unstable nature that accompanies these cells, due to their tendency to change to other types of cells, makes adult (somatic) stem cells more appealing (National). Somatic cells can be easily retrieved from a variety of tissues at no harm to the donor, Topole 2 while embryonic cells must come from specialized tissue (Prentice). Over 55,000 individuals are treated successfully with somatic stem cells every year, and there is an expected growth in these successes (Prentice), shown with the current FDA-approved clinical that deal with adult stem cells (Prentice, DA). Adipose and bone marrow stem cells are some of the more significant types of somatic stem cells. Adipose cells can regrow blood vessels and assist in regenerating bone, fat, cartilage, and smooth muscle (National). These cells have the ability to treat heart and circulatory diseases, as well as repairing heart muscle damaged by disease (National). Success with heart related issues using somatic stem cells was achieved by German doctors. Their results from a study were published that showed patients treated with somatic cells for chronic heart failure demonstrated improvement in heart function and a significant decrease in long-term (Prentice). Bone marrow stem cells possess the ability to be utilized for permanent treatments or cures for malignant as well as non-malignant disorders (National). Scientists from the University of Miami have reported heart damage... with the own bone marrow adult stem which resulted in reduced scar tissue and improved heart function of areas that were injured (Prentice). With the prevalence of heart disease in the United States, funding research for somatic stem cells such as these would likely allow for a medical breakthrough in reducing the occurrence of heart disease. At this point in our lives, the majority of us are around 18-20 years old and not necessarily thinking about diseases we could come in contact with in the future. However, as we and the people around us become older and more prone to common diseases present in the United States, we need to care more about how we can cure them. Besides heart disease, clinical Topole 3 trials are being run for curing where 60,000 new cases are diagnosed each year (Statistics), as well as which has had an 89% increase in deaths from 2000-2014 For somatic stem cell research to be successful, awareness and support must be given; you must get involved to expedite the expansion of this research. One of the major organizations that advocates adult stem cell research is the National Stem Cell Foundation. This mission is to promising developments in the field of regenerative medicine, support research collaboration wherever possible and work to accelerate access to scientific breakthroughs for people in (National). Using stem cell research towards neurodegenerative disease, autoimmune disease, rare childhood disorders, and regenerative repair is what this foundation primarily advocates for (National). By donating to the National Stem Cell Foundation, you will provide resources for these researchers in the foundation to conduct more experimental trials and eventually establish a more concrete procedure to treat, and possibly prevent, the common diseases found in the United States. As a result, there will be a lesser chance of someone in your life becoming severely ill, or even acquiring one of these diseases. Although donating is a beneficial option, there are plenty of other methods to become involved that are more interactive. One of the things you can do is celebrate and engage in Stem Cell Awareness Day on a designated date in early-mid October. On this day, there is an increased effort for stem cell researchers to get into high school classrooms, and in addition having research and academic institutions host public talks and other activities in their community (Get). Increasing your education of adult stem cells will result in greater success in spreading the word Topole 4 about this research, so on this day you can attend one of the community events and/or advocate to your town council or local schools to allow researchers to come in and discuss the importance of stem cell research, especially with various options for presentation rooms. To further spread information about stem cell research, you can contact local chapter for disease association and offer to share their available resources regarding research with stem cells. Another aspect of education to spread support for this research is to become a patient advocate. Part of this includes the acceleration of stem cell treatments to patients who qualify and advocate why they deserve to have these treatments, as well as how they can likely help the patient. The California Institute for Regenerative Medicine has a Communications Director for Public Communications and Patient Advocate Outreach you can contact if becoming a patient advocate interests you (Get). As an advocate, you can begin by volunteering and eventually start to work as one. Scholarships can be offered to place you on the right path to becoming an advocate. It is crucial to have these advocates because patients deserve to know they have the option to choose stem cell treatments. If you desire a more personal method for assisting the spread of stem cell research, you can become a bone marrow donor. With current research and methods, a successful bone marrow transplant requires the donors and recipients to be a perfect genetic match (National). To get an idea of how difficult this can be, finding a perfect match among siblings has a chance of less than 25%, and the marrow donated could identify the body as foreign and attack them (National). By donating your bone marrow, you can help researchers conduct further tests to reduce the chances of donor marrow attacking the recipient, as well as finding a method to increase the compatibility of donor and recipient. Bone marrow can either be harvested surgically in which doctors use needles to withdraw liquid marrow, or non-surgically, which Topole 5 involves the donor being given medication to increase the amount of blood-forming cells in their body and is drawn from a needle in the arm after five days (Steps). Adult stem cell research, with increased funding and the spread of knowledge, can cure many of the diseases that plague the United States today, and could have the potential to stop these diseases before they strike a patient. While embryonic stem cell research is in competition for support, it would be more beneficial to fund somatic cells. However, without your support, the benefits of stem cells cannot be reaped. easy to get involved with this issue, whether through donating, educating others, or celebrating a day of awareness. To make an even greater contribution, you can become a bone marrow donor and possibly save life. No matter how you choose to involve yourself with the expansion of this research, every contribution you make will make a difference. With the advancement of stem cell research, heart disease could fall from being the number one killer in the United States, and other diseases often encountered in the United States could be reduced. With this possibility in mind, you want to do everything possible to ensure someone you care about has a diminished chance of obtaining a potentially fatal disease? Topole 6 Works Cited Disease: Facts & Brightfocus.org. 7 March 2017. Web. 13 April 2017. CIRM.CA.gov. https://www.cirm.ca.gov/patients/get-involved. N.D. Web. 14 April 2017. CDC.gov. https://www.cdc.gov/heartdisease/facts.htm. N.D. Web. 14 April 2017. National Stem Cell Foundation. NSCF. http://www.nationalstemcellfoundation.org/mission/. N.D. Web. 14 April 2017. Prentice, David. Stem Cells are Treating Thousands of Patients LifeNews.com. 17 May 2011. http://www.lifenews.com/2011/05/17/adult-stem-cells-are-treating-thousands- of-patients-now/. 14 April 2017. Prentice, David A.. Diseases with Adult Stem Science. Vol 315, No 5810, 19 Jan 2007. http://science.sciencemag.org/content/315/5810/328.2. 14 April 2017. of Disease FloridaHospital.com. N.D. Web. 13 April 2017. of PBSC or bone marrow Bethematch.org. https://bethematch.org/transplant- basics/how-marrow-donation-works/steps-of-bone-marrow-or-pbsc-donation/. N.D. Web. 14 April 2017. U.S. Department of Health & Human Services. Cell National Institutes of Health. https://stemcells.nih.gov/info/basics/1.htm. N.D. Web. 14 April 2017.