Olson 1 Benjamin Olson ENC 1102 Ms. Theodosiou 26 February 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric in Dove Advertisements The advertising world has seen resistance in recent years for its unrealistic portrayal of societal body expectations, especially those pertaining to young girls and women. Dove has attempted to change these unrealistic expectations through different social campaigns in their marketing to represent women. Dove is a toiletries company that produces products such as soaps, shampoos, deodorants/antiperspirants, lotions, skin products, and more. The company originated in the U.S and was founded in 1957, known for its new beauty cleansing bar (Dove). Over the years, Dove has had many campaigns targeted especially toward women and young girls to increase body positivity. The first campaign began in 2004, and is known as the Campaign for Real Beauty. This campaign over the years has transformed into Instagram challenges, the Dove Self-Esteem Project, the Choose Beautiful campaign, and many others (Dove Campaigns). Using rhetorical strategies such as logos, pathos, ethos, and Kairos, these two advertisements by Dove aim to succeed in their mission of empowering girls and women to feel confident about their bodies, and of course, to sell more products. Pathos is a rhetorical strategy used to appeal to the emotion and help the audience better connect with the content and message being put forth (Hoffman 35). Utilizing humanistic empathy and relatability, often pathos is used in visual rhetoric to leave an effect on the reader and persuade them to act (often to buy products). Both Figure 1 and Figure 2 show different aspects of how pathos is used by Dove to both support their campaign to increase feminine body confidence and subsequently sell more products. Figure 1 shows its most apparent evidence of pathos in the face of the women in the ad. All seven women seem to be happy, careless, and even laughing which is evidence of realistic relationships and informality. The women display confidence as they are in their underwear and seem to be proud of Olson 2 themselves. The advertisement reads, the price of 1 supermodel, we got 7 real indicating that the women did not get paid a lot for modeling for the advertisement, which further supports this appeal to pathos to make viewers feel more happy, genuine, and confident with themselves. Figure 2 has a more direct audience that the pathos applies to, mothers. The ad shows a mother kissing her head, and a young girl smiling to the right. Since the relationship between a mother and a daughter is one in which a mother acts as the role model, and the two love each other, the reader will understand the relatability in this picture as they may make a personal connection to their own mother or daughter. This familial relationship in addition to the caption Beauty -- Believe in your own unique beauty and guide your daughter to believe in serves to put the reader in a happy mood when emotionally connecting with the pair, and to feel responsible to make their daughters or children be body confident. The color blue also serves as a calming color which can represent wisdom or integrity. Pathos is effectively used in both advertisement to leave the viewer with a happy disposition and a more confident view of their bodies. The appeal to emotion also is enhanced by perceived validity of those photographed, and by the company itself. Advertisers will often brand companies to increase familiarity over time with the branding logos and designs which makes the viewer feel more comfortable and believe more credibly the emotional and logically based message from the perspective of brand trust 80). Ethos can be described as the moral credibility of the writer, or the way that a writer (or creator) creates trust with the readers (Hoffman 20). Creating credibility with the audience involves selecting a company, person, or writer with at least a perceived credible opinion or experience that could help the viewer make an educated decision. In Figure 1 ethos comes from the branding on the bottles, and the women themselves. The branding on the bottles are professionally made and well known for this specific company which makes the products, and helps by being able to legitimize any messages or other aspects that could employ ethos such as the women themselves. Simply placing the URL of the website for their ad campaign, and including the Dove golden logo inclines the viewer to trust the information and message portrayed. The identities of the women in the picture are unknown to the reader, and appear to be Olson 3 living confidently and happy despite their differing physiques showing that beauty is individual and not a mold to fit into. They represent credible sources to reach out to other women and young girls since it is implied that they understand what real beauty is since they experience their unique bodies every day. Figure 2 utilizes ethos through the implied wisdom of the mother in a mother-daughter relationship. Since traditionally a mother is wiser, and is impressionable over their children, the image of a mother kissing the head of their child gives validity to the advice of Dove for women to believe that they are beautiful and to ensure that children believe that as well, especially girls. Ethos legitimizes the advice and source of the message on the advertisement, and logic in the advertisement directly addresses the main mission of the campaign. This is where the rhetorical strategy of logos plays an important role within advertising. Logos as a rhetorical strategy is the logical, and sensical aspects of an argument or message. Utilizing logos is a very direct way to get a message across, and works well for texts, statistics, and facts in general. Figure 1 utilizes logos through its implication of the expenses of modeling in the advertising world. The figure reads, the price of 1 supermodel, we got 7 real By stating that 1 supermodel has an extremely high cost when compared to 7 Dove recognizes the unrealistic nature of beauty in the supermodel world which is used in advertising. The audience can then surmise logically that real women and real beauty must be realistic and not necessitate a huge price tag just to take pictures of such women. The women are racially diverse, have different hair colors, body shapes, and one woman even has a large tattoo. The combination of the words on the advertisement and the message put forth by the women in the picture logically come together to allow a viewer to make a determination that supermodels are not real beauty, and by proxy hopefully feel better about their own bodies as well. The word is also very important as a tool of persuasion because it follows the criteria for the no true Scotsman logical fallacy. The no true Scotsman fallacy occurs when an argument made (by companies using unrealistic body expectations in ads presumably) insists that those shown in the advertisements are the true and real definition of real women, and insists that somehow the bodies of models on other advertisements must not be women. Figure 2 uses logos through its text as well. Figure 2 states to, beauty -- Believe in your own unique beauty and guide your daughter to Olson 4 believe in The logic behind this statement is obvious, the reader is intended to understand the relationship between a mother and daughter is one of mentorship in which a mother is the role model. By believing self to be beautiful without exception, it must also be the case that in watching their mothers believe themselves to be beautiful, young girls will as well. This is a logical fallacy known as a A slippery slope logical fallacy presumes that because one thing will happen (a woman believing herself to be beautiful), the next will surely happen as well (a daughter believing herself to be beautiful). This kind of logic lends itself to mothers who should feel an immediate need to change the way they think about their bodies, otherwise their impressionable daughters may not grow to believe they are beautiful either. Kairos is a rhetorical strategy concerned with timeliness, and often involves a call to action (Hoffman 25). Of the two ads, Figure 2 had a very distinct call to action. Figure 2 implies that if women, especially mothers, do not begin to recognize their beauty and have more body confidence, then their daughters may not have this confidence either in the future. Though as previously mentioned, this is a logical fallacy known as the it serves as an effective means to persuade women to follow the advice. Since the advice seems logical on the surface, and the company as successfully drawn the viewer in utilizing the different rhetorical strategies, a customer would therefore be more likely to buy the product and prescribe to the mission of the campaign. Utilizing rhetorical strategies is an extremely effective and clever way for companies to draw customers in to buy their product, and even to benefit humanity through campaigns such as the Campaign for Real Beauty. Using emotion and feeling with pathos entices the readers heart or gut feeling. Logic appeals to the head where the advertisement and campaign makes sense in the way that they describe it. Ethos refers to the authority and credibility of the company and the information they are putting out, and Kairos leaves the viewer with a reaction in which they feel compelled to buy now rather than later, or to change their actions to prescribe to the campaign now, rather than later. Together these strategies have proven to be effective since so many companies utilize them, and though logical fallacies such as the Olson 5 slippery slope are sometimes used, many customers never realize this, or even if they do the impression of the company as positive remains in their mind. Olson 6 Works Cited  Unilever. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Dove  Dove US. N.p., 31 Mar. 2016. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric matters: foundations of rhetoric and composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 2016. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. John and Nicholas J. Persuasion in Advertising. [Electronic London ; New York : Routledge, 2004., 2004. Olson 7 Figure 1: Figure 2: