Rahman 1 Aashik Rahman Ms. Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 30 April 2017 The Difficulties Faced by Children with Same Sex Parents Every children have to face different types of problems and live through difficulties in their lives. Children of divorced parents, single parents, gay parents and even happily married parents have to go through all sorts of difficulties as they grow up. Although all these children face difficulties, one topic that has people talking about is: do the children being raised by same sex couples have a disadvantage in comparison to the children being raised by heterosexual, married couples. Many types of research was done on this matter to find out whether there is a difference between these two. The research shows that there is a difference between children being raised in the homosexual household against the children being raised in the heterosexual household. There are different ways children of same sex parents are at a disadvantage, in both emotional and physical ways. As time goes on, children of same sex parents face more difficulties in life than children of married heterosexul parents. Different types of research was done to find out about the different aspects. Before 2010, the research was based on how children raised by married mothers and fathers were better off than the children raised by same sex, divorced and single parents. After 2010, the research was more concentrated on topics like how children of same sex parents behave physically, mentally and psychologically. All this research showed that children of same sex parents were at a disadvantage. According to Glenn T. Stanton, reliable research indicates that children in Rahman 2 same sex homes do as 2). He talks about how children need both their biological parents to have a healthy lifestyle. There was another aspect as to whether same sex marriage will increase sexual confusion in their kids. According to Trayce Hansen, sex marriage no doubt will increase sexual confusion and sexual experimentation by young 8). She also says, find children raised by homosexuals are more likely to engage in homosexual behaviours themselves since worldwide research reveals homosexuality is primarily environmentally 9). Research also showed that after the children who later engage in non-heterosexual behaviours are at a higher risk of suffering from psychiatric disorders and abuse alcohol and drugs(Hansen,para 10). Another aspect regarding this matter was the adoption of kids by same sex couples. As homosexual people got married, they fulfilled their desires to complete their families by adopting children. But there were negative sides to this. Research showed that adopted children would ask about why they do not have a father or a mother in a lesbian or a gay household. a researcher and writer says, sex parents give their children a second class upbringing by exacerbating normal problems that adopted kids 2). In her research she asks a lesbian mother about what she answered to her son when he asks about not having a father. The lesbian mother answered by saying to her son that if he had a father, he would not have her as a mother. says, She made her son feel that his natural desire for a father is a rejection of her. This is a terrible burden to place on a little 9). According to Goldberg, a parent can be stressful to relationship, possibly leading to declines in intimacy and 9). Here, Goldberg talks about how adopting children can also causes the relationship to be in jeopardy. Rahman 3 In 2015, four adult children with gay and lesbian parents filed a lawsuit against same sex marriage(Brown). They talk about their personal life experiences, the problems they had to deal while growing up in a gay or lesbian household. This shows how most of the children in homosexual households have very little interaction with heterosexual couples while growing up. Dawn Stefanowicz, who had gay fathers, said, surrounded by average heterosexual couples, partners slept and ate in our home, and they took me along to meeting places in the LGBT communities. I was exposed to overt sexual activities like sodomy, nudity, pornography, group sex, sadomasochism and the 4). Robert Oscar Lopez, who had lesbian mothers, said, I had an inexplicable compulsion to have sex with older males, I wanted to have sex with men who were my 11). This shows the sexual confusion due to the lack of a parent. Mark Regnerus surveyed 15,000 americans from the age of 18 to 39, asking them questions about their upbringings(Jaslow, para 2). His survey resulted that children of same sex couples are likely to have more social and emotional problems than the children of heterosexual couples(para 6). As time passes on, people are getting more and more used to the idea of homosexual couples having children. Many people nowadays think that homosexual couples are better parents, as the children either get the attention of two mothers or the love and discipline of two fathers. Other people have started to believe that there is no difference between the children raised by homosexual couple and the children raised by heterosexual couple. But this does not change the fact that there are still certain aspects in which children of same sex couples are at a disadvantage. Rahman 4 In conclusion, research indicates that the difficulties faced by children of same sex parents are greater compared to the children of heterosexual parents. The children of same sex parents tend to have more mental and emotional problems as they grow up compared to children of heterosexual parents. Researches also show that adopting children causes commitment problems in couples. Although many people tend to believe that there is no difference in both the types of children, research indicates that being raised by a gay couple negatively impacts the life of the child. Rahman 5 Works cited Brown, Lauretta. Adults Raised by Gay Couples Speak Out Against Gay in Federal  N.p., 23 Jan. 2015. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Goldberg, Abbie E., and Randi, Garcia. Of Relationship Dissolution In Lesbian, Gay, And Heterosexual Adoptive Of Family 29, no. 3, 2015, pp. Hansen, Trayce. Same-Sex Marriage Is Harmful to  edited by Debra A. Miller, Greenhaven Press, 2012. At Issue. Viewpoints in eztcc.vccs.edu:2048/login?url=http://link.galegroup.com/apps/doc/EJ3010014234/OVIC? Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. Originally published as Same-Sex Marriage: Not in the Best Interest of  2009. Jaslow, Ryan. Kids of gay parents fare worse, study finds, but research draws fire from  CBS Interactive, 12 June 2012. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Staff, ZENIT. Dangers of Same-Sex Couples Adopting Children (Part  N.p., 05 Nov. 2004. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Stanton, Glenn T. Are Children with Same-Sex Parents at a  About N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Feb.