Almeida 1 Felipe Ganem Cadar de Almeida Ins. Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 1 March 2017 Playing With The Future The more technology evolves, so does the world of gaming. More people are able to have access to games and technology, including children. 2008 it was reported that 97% of youth ages 12 to 17 played some type of videogame, and that two-thirds of them played action and adventure games that tend to contain violent (Miller 1). Today, the number of young gamers stop increasing. As each day passes gaming companies produce many different options and genres of games, to make the gamer more entertained in the game. They also make games that seem really close to real life. Everybody loves playing videogames and they are fun to interact with friends, family, meet new people on, but what if it is not as good as it seems to be? Even with the industry of games growing and more options appearing in the market, the most sold and played type of games in 2017 had violent content. It has been proven that playing violent videogames can lead children to violent behavior, so the media should have more control or should offer more guidance on who should be buying these games? Also, the parents should be more conscientious of what they are letting their children play and the harm that these games could cause on their brain health. Although children love playing videogames and even some parents like to play with them, so they can spend some time together, the world has got to be careful when it comes to playing violent games. When a child is playing this kind of game, the main problem is the environment of the game, that leads children to aggressive thoughts so they can really be into Almeida 2 the game. Another important risk factor to put on the table is that in most of the games today, the gamer makes the decisions for which actions the character makes, determining how the game will go on. According to Toppo, we practice repeatedly affects the brain. If we practice aggressive ways of thinking, feeling and reacting, then we will get better at (Toppo 1). For example, playing Grand Theft Auto, one of the best sellers of all times, the gamer has to control the character in third person vision. The gamer lives a crime life having the opportunity to do whatever he wants against the law, such as stealing cars, shooting people, dealing with drug traffic, knocking cops down and many actions that could lead a child to have negative understanding of what real life is. There was an interview done with 200 children in a school, and 1 in 10 played videogames for more than three hours a day. those who spend more than three hours a day displayed higher levels of aggression and were less academically (Bingham 1). According to new research and statistics, 91% of U.S. children aged 2 to 17, play video games, that is equivalent to 64 million children and teenagers. Studies have proven that people of all ages, everyday are being influenced by a lot of information provided by the videogames. Children between 2 and 17 years old are too young to build concepts of life on their own, so they will trust and learn from what their parents teach them, and from what their parents let them do and If parents allow children to play violent games, what they are doing is telling them that playing them is acceptable. This could lead children to grow up with wrong ethical values, like displaying aggressive behavior. As Miller stated, meta-analyses of the literature reviewing psychological research studies and large observational studies have found an association between violent video games and increased aggressive thinking and behavior in youths. And some casual observers go further, assuming that tragic school shootings prove a link between such games and real-world Almeida 3 (Miller 1). What if that is really true, and children are being manipulated by violent games and their violent actions led by playing them, growing up with the idea that what they can do while playing is the same they can do in real life? A research was made with 217 children, and what researchers found out, is that videogames if played in small doses, can be good for behavior. who regularly played less than an hour a day of any type of game were actually less likely than their non-playing peers to fight with or bully peers and were rated as better behaved by their (Dotinga 1). But one hour per day for children is just a little when you get into the game and lose track of the real time. Also, the majority of parents let their children play for much more than one hour, so we can conclude that in mostly all the cases, it is more harmful than better for children to play videogames. these standards, there are currently over 34 million core gamers in the United States, and they are playing video games for an average of 22 hours every (Siegal 1). Playing videogames could be something fun to do with people we like, but it turns out that the gaming market is not being well restricted to the right ages. People between 2 and 17 years old, are more likely to be manipulated and to learn wrong ethical values playing violent games if compared to someone 20+ years old, who has more concepts of life, and has lived more to know how to differentiate real life to virtual life. It really is not recommended violent gaming for people under 17 years old as doing that could mess up their minds and lead them not only to aggressive behavior, but also getting a decreased prosocial behavior and empathy. Education starts at home, so parents are the most responsible for their health. They must warn their child and set limits to what and for how long they could play, as even nonviolent games played for more than an hour a day could be harmful for vision, headache, making them too excited to sleep, losing track of time so they Almeida 4 leave it to do other activities such as sports that are much healthier for them. Parents should not buy videogames for their sons if it match with their ages, because they might not see the danger but they are forgetting that their children are just starting life, have any experience, and are starting to build and learn concepts such as what is right or wrong. So the problem with violent games is that they give so much options to the player to make bad actions, that the children who is just learning about life, can think that he can be the same person in real life as he is inside the game. This is alarming and parents need to be stricter with their sons, but also with the help of the gaming market controlling better to whom they are selling those violent games. Almeida 5 Works Cited Bingham, John. Study finds no evidence violent video games make children  The Telegraph. Telegraph Media Group, 12 Mar. 2016. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Dotinga, Randy. Video Games Influence Behavior:  Consumer HealthDay. N.p., 03 Apr. 2015. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Miller, Michael Craig, MD. Violent Videogames and Young  Violent video games and young people. Harvard Medical School, 1 Oct. 2010. Web. 6 Feb. 2016. Siegal, Jacob. This is how much time the average gamer spends playing games every  BGR. N.p., 14 May 2014. Web. 04 May 2017. Toppo, Greg. Do Video Games Inspire Violent  Scientific American. N.p., 29 May 2015. Web. 05 Feb. 2016.