Patella 1 Jason Patella Adam Carter ENC 1102 18 April 2017 The Marijuana Misclassification Crisis As we were always told lots of drugs were bad, however cannabis, pot, or marijuana is not actually as bad as we were told. The drug is common topic displayed in many forms of American entertainment such as television shows and movies or you might even know someone who has used it. The United States government has not looked at cannabis favorably ever since president Nixon in 1971 added cannabis to the Schedule One drug listing (Drug Policy Alliance). The government will seem to still not be in favor of its use considering the new attorney general Jeff Sessions said, the idea that America will be a better place if marijuana is sold in every corner (Sessions). The United States government has labeled cannabis as a Schedule One drug in 1971 and kept it there till today. As a Schedule One drug, it means that it is categorized to be as bad as heroine and less harmful than cocaine and other harmful substances. However, cannabis has lots of benefits over its disadvantages it presents. We are now even using a well-regulated mostly pure liquid or smoke able version of cannabis as a medical substance to help certain people yet we still place cannabis in a category that is extremely negative and in a category where drugs have no medical benefits at all. For example, Schedule Two drugs can have medical benefits they just have high potential for abuse, with use potentially leading to severe psychological or physical dependence (United States Drug Enforcement Administration). Cannabis should be moved from Schedule One to some other place such as a lower classification (Schedule 2,3,4, or 5) or off the list entirely. To combat this problem of cannabis being Patella 2 wrongfully classified, we all need to get out there and call our federal representatives and let them know you want cannabis reclassified to a lower classification and made legal to use by everyone. Cannabis has been talked about for a long time and there are many different misconceptions about it and they are just not true. Cannabis is an old and natural psychoactive (mind altering) recreational drug, and has been used for certain religious, spiritual or medical purposes (L. Anderson). The effects of cannabis, depending on the dosage and amount used are a feeling of calm, lowered reaction time, hallucinations, painkiller, anxiety can decrease, and possible replacement for alcohol (Welsh and L. Anderson). So, there are so benefits to taking it. It is also shown to be not too addictive (L. Anderson). However, it can have the same long-term effects as tobacco smokers after a slightly longer period of use than their smoking use (L. Anderson). Also, due to the nature of it being fat based instead of water based it stays in a system for a longer time than other drugs such as alcohol, heroine, and cocaine (L. Anderson). The United States classify cannabis as a Schedule One drug. According to the website a Schedule One drug is a drug with no accepted medical use and a high potential for abuse (United States Drug Enforcement Administration). However, if we followed that guidelines tobacco should also be classified as a Schedule One drug and it is not. So, the government has scheduled a drug that has medical benefits and lots of potential helpful uses and has made it illegal while making tobacco, which has no benefits, legal. Even though cannabis has some disadvantages it has enough advantages to be changed from a schedule 1 drug to a different classification. Even if you consume cannabis in any form or really care, you should because if it legal or not has a huge impact on the United States society. Plus, roughly 60 percent of the Patella 3 United States population is pro-legalization of cannabis so there is a high chance things might change soon (Rettner). The legalization of cannabis affects even non-smokers. There are many benefits to legalization of cannabis as well as the few disadvantages that go along with it. The disadvantages of having cannabis out would be danger of second hand smoke, lung problems to users, and the altered status it gives. When being in an altered status, the perception and reflexes are decreased which would lead to more car accidents with an increased rise in driving while stoned incidents (NYLN). It also is a drug that has additive properties even though the additive nature as bad as alcohol and tobacco. Now, one huge benefit that would incentivize all of us to want to legalize cannabis is an increase in revenue, an increase in revenue would lead to the USA being less in debt and more money to companies which might allow them to expand the number of workers they employ. This would allow companies to create more jobs opportunities for all of us in the future. There would also be less money out there supporting organized crime because any money they got selling cannabis is now directed to the USA government and away from crime organizations (NYLN). Law enforcement can also dedicate their time and energy to other problems instead of donating manpower, money, and time to cannabis busts and criminals (NYLN). This would mean that there would be a lower crime rate so we would have to worry about getting hurt by criminal slightly less. It also would mean that when, if you are not already paying taxes, could possibly be lower because the government would have another new huge source of income. If cannabis was controlled by the government they also could control what is in cannabis because most times when someone smokes marijuana it is most likely laced with other harmful chemicals. So, people who use cannabis would be able to use it safer and there would be no worries about getting caught and wasting time and money in jail. It also would give a wider access to cannabis so certain people who have trouble sleeping or Patella 4 have lots of anxiety can use it to calm down and mellow out (NYLN). Cannabis legalization would have the positive impact of producing more jobs, lowing taxes, being a new safe drug for those with anxiety and more effective law enforcement. We all could benefit from those impacts so we should legalize Cannabis. Cannabis has many positive and negative aspects to legalization; however, the number of positives clearly outweigh the negatives. Cannabis might have the highest support rating in years but mean much unless we all are going to go out and do something about it being misclassified (Rettner). Cannabis has many advantages to people if someone chooses to use it and has major benefits to everyone if it were legalized. The only way to change the classification is to push the lawmakers into changing their minds about cannabis. The way we all have to do this is by calling our federal representatives because they want your vote and if you tell them not voting for them and are unhappy with how they are not doing anything about the misclassification issue and they might change their mind to keep some votes. You should tell them Cannabis has been proven to be of medical use and it is still scheduled as a Schedule One drug so could you please help get it reclassified and if not I will not be voting for you next If you also know who your federal reprehensive is you can find it at the website http://whoismyrepresentative.com/. If you are scared to call them you can always handwrite a letter or send an email but they do not have nearly as much effect as a phone call. There are many things we have to do to get cannabis reclassified but we all need to do our part and call our federal representatives if we are to get cannabis reclassified. Cannabis is a drug that is classified as a Schedule One drug which means it is viewed as bad as heroine and is supposedly highly abusive and has no medical benefits. Cannabis is a drug that has lower rate of addiction and abuse than alcohol and tobacco and does have medical Patella 5 benefits which is a huge reason it should be classified. There are also many benefits to legalization of cannabis such as of producing more jobs, lowing taxes, being a new safe drug for those with anxiety and more effective law enforcement. We all could benefit from those impacts which is why we all should be in support of legalization of Cannabis. To combat this problem of cannabis being wrongfully classified, we all need to get out there and call our federal representatives and let them know you want cannabis reclassified to a lower classification and made legal to use by everyone. Patella 6 Works Cited Drug Policy Alliance. Brief History of the Drug Drug Policy Alliance, 2017 , http://www.drugpolicy.org/facts/new-solutions-drug-policy/brief-history-drug-war-0. L. Anderson, PharmD. Drugs.com, 13 Nov. 2016, https://www.drugs.com/illicit/marijuana.html. NYLN. Primary Pros and Cons of Legalizing NYLN, 12 June 2015, https://nyln.org/19-primary-pros-and-cons-of-legalizing-weed. Rettner, Rachael. Marijuana Be Legal? 60 Percent of Americans Now Say Fox News Health, 20 Oct. 2016, http://www.foxnews.com/health/2016/10/20/should- marijuana-be-legal-60-percent-americans-now-say-yes.html. Sessions, Jeff. General Jeff Sessions Delivers Remarks on Efforts to Combat Violent Crime and Restore Public Safety Before Federal, State and Local Law United States Department of Justice, 31 Mar. 2017, https://www.justice.gov/opa/speech/attorney-general-jeff-sessions-delivers-remarks- efforts-combat-violent-crime-and-restore. United States Drug Enforcement Administration. United States Drug Enforcement Administration, https://www.dea.gov/druginfo/ds.shtml. Welsh, Jennifer, and Kevin Loria. Health Benefits of Business Insider, 20 Apr. 2014, http://www.businessinsider.com/health-benefits-of-medical-marijuana-2014-4.