Meqwar 1 Husain Meqwar Instructor Ashely Tisdale Composition 1 30 April 2017 Euthanasia The encyclopedia of science and ethics describes euthanasia as: the medical process through which terminally ill patients are assisted through a medical procedure that is approved by the doctor and consented to by patients or their family in a situation where they are not able to make the decision on their own. The procedure is usually considered in cases where the patients are undergoing perpetual pain or dejection through their chronic condition and there is no probable chance that they would be able to recover. On the other hand, the patient may also be in coma, a state that is normally referred to as vegetable condition and hence unable to recover, discern and even control their will and actions entirely (Chadwick 710). In essence, euthanasia aids to accord patients a death with dignity by helping them avoid a dreary path of pain, suffering and expended resources that would not in any way change their conditions. However, there are opponents, especially out of their personal or social leanings that perceive the process to be utterly unwarranted and against the tenets of human life, which as would be observed is a prejudicial and uninformed perspective. The course of this paper will analyze the concept of euthanasia with the aim of illustrating that it is a sound procedure that provides a solution to perpetual suffering and patient disarray and hence why the law should be amended to reflect its legality and viability as a medical procedure. Australia is one of many countries where people are suffering in cases of chronic medical conditions and debates around euthanasia are rife and eliciting lots of attention. According to a recent article in the Morning Herald, much of the negative connotations surrounding the issue of euthanasia arise from the fact that in legal terms, the concept is not accepted as a medical practice. However, as it has been observed in line with the article, one has the right to death and death with Meqwar 2 dignity for that matter as much as they have a right to live (Malone n.p.). Consequently, the opinion illustrated here postulates how legality has become an issue in the course of a rightfully warranted medical procedure that will afford a patient dignity by helping them avoid the long term and perpetual suffering caused by chronic conditions or dysfunctional states in a patient care environment. According to the article, tangible opinion by those affected has shown how the process is helpful to reduce agony for not just the patient, but also for their loved ones in terminal illness through a quick and dignified send off for them in that state. As a voluntary process, it is a right that needs to be allowed at the liberty of the patient and their caregivers. The whole concept of euthanasia has also been evaluated from the standpoint of how pain is involved in the process. According to an article by Dinchi, the idea of euthanasia is that it helps the patient to alleviate pain and as such, it is a sound procedure because the issue of suffering is eliminated. Ending of life cannot be said to be illegal in the case where a pain is involved, be it in its physical or emotional attribute. The actions of the doctor in this case allow the patient to get a dignified send off devoid of pain and suffering as it is common in terminal illness (Dinchi n.p.). The close relationship between the term euthanasia and assisted suicide has been sued to develop negative connotations but in essence, it is something that offers a solution to the predicament that would be facing the patient in the process and utter perpetuity. Pain needs not to be a part of the final journey and as such, the process applied in trying to offer an alleviation to it cannot be condemned in legal or ethical terms. It should be perceived in terms of its general good instead. Further, the opinion offered and generally held by accomplished medical practitioners is that from the ethical and medical point of view, legality of euthanasia as a medical procedure is not something that needs to be restricted and condemned. In general, people jump into contrary conclusions by using their emotional standpoint in informing their leverage and point of view. This deviates from the basis of facts upon which any sound commitment needs to be based. In this case, enlightening people on the case of euthanasia and informing them about the facts would illustrate that there is a change needed in the law to reflect this factual basis of argument (Chaloner & Sanders Meqwar 3 44). Considering the reality, not opinions or other personal leanings would change the basis upon which the law barring this process has been based. The procedure is normally based on medical evidence and not just the feeling of the patient and what he would aesthetically prefer. The issue has been mostly shunned upon based on the slippery nature of the attributes involved in the consideration. Most of the medical practitioners as has been noted tend to support procedure and there have been numerous requests of the same from patients. Evaluating one specific case in depth, a patient made a request for peaceful death but on the legal and social leanings that have been developed, the doctor shied away and refused to fulfill the last will of the patient. However, the patient ultimately succumbed a few days later. While the law and society looks at the issue as a murder, there is general consensus within the medical profession that accepts euthanasia on a sound and irrefutable basis (Brennan 20). Ultimately, despite the overall support and feasibility proof that has been developed in favor of the practice, ethics, theological and philosophical studies have been generally used in developing an alternative opinion against the practice. Looking at this perspective, it is evident that a morally and ethically right society would not even consider the practice since a human life is something that should be treated with sanctity (Novak 120). Consequently, this is a practice, which in real terms is hidden murder that has been given an alternative treatment that does not fit in the natural and divine beliefs. However, religion just like any other held to dogma is an utopia in the face of tangible evidence and medical proof that has been developed out of fact and reasoning. There is no basis upon which a belief can be used to substitute proper practice in this case. In summary, all facts and evidence point to the viability of the practice and the reason as to why legal, religious and philosophical prejudice should not be used against euthanasia. Everyone has a right to choose how he or she wants to die, therefore the society cannot restrict the use of euthanasia because this restriction deprive people from the freedom of choice. Meqwar 4 Works Cited Brennan, Frank. on the Euthanasia Slippery Slope: THE Eureka Street, 21(12): 18-21. Academic Search Complete. 2011. Web. Chadwick, Ruth.  Encyclopedia of Science, Technology, and Ethics. Ed.Carl Mitcham. Vol. 2. Detroit: Macmillan Reference USA, 710-713. Gale Virtual Reference Library. 2005. Web. Retrieved from VRL&sw=w Chaloner, C & Sanders, K. Euthanasia: The legal issues. Nursing standard, 21(36): 42-46. 2007. Web. Retrieved from EBSCOhost. Dinchi, J. Death with The Baltimore Sun. 2007. Web. Retrieved from http:// www.finalexitnetwork.org Malone, Paul. We all need the right to die. The Sydney Morning Herald. 2016. Web. Retrieved from http://www.smh.com.au/comment/we-all-need-the-right-to-die-20160616- gpkf9a.html Novak, David. sanctity of human (pp. 111-160). Washington, DC: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY PRESS. 2007. Print.