Palta 1 Rudy Palta Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 - 003 February 26, 2017 Stay away from Genetically Modified Food It is widely known that GMOs, or genetically modified organisms, have been a controversial issue due to the possible consequences of not being maintained properly as well as there is much needed research on the health effects. The job of the Non-GMO Project is to inform the public of the effects and the alternatives of genetically modified food, this is done through diverse methods such as rallies, blogs, but most significantly propaganda posters in order to provide facts and information as well as provide a sense of emotion with the images that are used. The Non-GMO Project is the largest leader in the market for GMO avoidance and one of their main mission statements is to provide a source of Non-GMO products. Many of the ingredients in food products are unknown to the consumers, bringing up the question of how healthy could the food people consume possibly be and what are the possible effects of genetically modified food. The Non-Gmo Project uses posters and advertisements, to help present the main issues of GMOs through imagery as well as ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos in order to show how this issue does have an affect on the lives of a society. The Non-GMO Project was created in 2007 by two grocery stores, Natural Grocery in Berkeley, California and The Big Carrot Natural Food Market in Toronto, Ontario both of which had spent the preceding years working diligently to provide their customers with more information about GMOs(Non-gmo project). The organization had rallied over one Palta 2 hundred stores in a campaign to ask producers about their products in order to know if they were genetically modified. This organization is very credible with several experts from a series of diverse backgrounds who want to inform citizens they have other options besides GMOs and that people should know what they are eating and the effects it has to their health. Logos is the use of reason and judgement in order to evaluate sources; the first image provides a lot of information of the topic at hand through this method. The first propaganda poster that was made by the Non-Gmo Project states in your This question makes the audience think of the issue of genetically modified organisms. Many people take the ingredients in their food into consideration; providing information on the lack of safety this food may have due to the little research . This poster also shows an apple that appears to be turned into a monster with multiple teeth and tentacles. This can be seen as logos because the image is portraying the creation of GMOs as unnatural due to the manipulation of the genetics of organisms, providing information on the methods genetically modified organisms are used and made. An apple is known to be a food product that must be grown, this shows how genetically modified organisms can be seen in all forms of food and depending on the labeling their may be no way of differentiating between genetically modified food and organic, creating another issue of trust for consumers as well as fear. People may not know what is genetically modified food, however since the overall picture entails animal characteristics intertwined with food the image creates a depiction that can be seen as very similar to the method of the production of genetically modified goods(soe). Palta 3 Pathos is the use of emotional appeal in order to inform the reader of the issues taking place. The statement in your can be seen as manner of striking fear to the public by making them feel what they are eating is harmful or unknown. This can also be supported by the image of the monster apple since it aggressive and main purpose is to strike fear. There is a lack of research on the what effects these chemicals could cause due to the modification of organisms, creating a lack of trust between both the producer and the consumer, this is what the Non-GMO Project would like to reveal. This creates possible doubt and fear due to the lack of knowledge the audience has and brings their attention to the poster. The fear that the poster presents provides the realization that since food is a necessity it makes citizens realizes how GMOs correlate with all lives, therefore creating an incentive to avoid genetically modified organisms. A source of credibility or ethos would be the the non-gmo project logo, this logo is on many food products and this organization is very well known for their rallies and their purpose of trying to provide an alternative food source that is more natural and safe(Merriam-Webster).The kairos that could be evaluated from this source is that this food is clearly unsafe due to the monstrous image, meaning that there are probably consequences of consuming this food therefore creating an incentive to eat non-genetically modified goods now in order to stop plausible health effects in the future. The 2nd image is much more simpler compared to the first, it merely states look for the and it contains the non-gmo project logo however this does provide useful information. There is definitely logos in this image through the use of symbols in order to provide information such as the butterfly which has always been a symbol that was used in all of the non-gmo projects. Butterflies represent a symbol of themes such as beauty, nature, and life Palta 4 which is what this organization is trying to promote, a more natural food source, informing the the public of the main purpose of the Non-Gmo Project. The logo provides ethos which is the credibility of the source, as stated before the non-gmo project is a well known organization main purpose is to promote the education of the topic genetically modified food products, it is to preserving and building the non-GMO food supply, and providing verified non-GMO choices in order to create a more natural and healthy society(Non-gmo Project). The Non-Gmo Project believes that everyone deserves an informed choice about whether or not to consume genetically modified Project) The quote for the can also be seen as a manner of informing the public of products with their logo in order to inform the public of an alternative besides genetically modified organisms. This can also be seen as a way to represent the possible outcome if the community does not make this change, making it seem like if people keep eating gmos there will be no butterflies. Showing the potential harm to the sanctity of the environment due to the negative effects of genetically modified organisms , such as killing insects in the ecosystem due to the use of pesticides(Harvard). This will then lead to other issues such as sustainability where if bees were to go extinct it would be extremely difficult for society survive due to the lack of pollination. The lack of pollination leads to less crops, as a result causing an economic depression and poor health. The image shows very little however, the use of logos leads to the portrayal of many themes that are interconnected in order to show the reason why the Non-Gmo Project makes such an effort to promote a non-gmo world. Pathos can also be seen in the second image through the interpretation of the sky. The sky can be seen as a manner of portraying the theme of the natural world where there any modifications and beautiful in nature compared to genetically modified food being manipulated. Palta 5 This can be seen as an attempt to promote non-genetically modified goods in order to keep the natural world preserved, the use of blue can be seen as method to create happiness or attention to the beauty of nature. Persuading viewers to support the non-gmo project in order to promote the sustainability of the natural world in order for the audience to be able to always view nature in its healthy state.The kairos or the effect that the firm is trying to push onto the reader overall is to eat more natural foods that have ingredients that are known, in order to live a prosperous life and live happily just like a butterfly flying into the endless sky of wonders. Both of these images show that the Non-Gmo Project make a large effort to support a non-gmo world. They pay great attention to detail with the use of symbolism as well as color, in order to portray some of themes people may not be so informed of. Both of these posters provide a lot of information in order to inform the audience of the subject matter of genetically modified organisms, in order to promote less use of this products. There is also the use of the emotional appeal in order to persuade society that the use of genetically modified is harmful through the use of imagery that is shown on the poster. In conclusion, GMOs do require a lot of further research on the effects and people deserve to know what they are eating. This main purpose is to educate the public in order to inform them of an alternative food source, many people feel like genetically modifying food is merely unnatural and unsafe therefore they deserve the right to decide whether they consume it or not. The Non-Gmo project has proved to be the world leader of the topic of genetically modified organisms and had captured this through these images, by showing the values and beliefs of the organization. The portrayal of the characteristics of a inhumane method is what this organization is trying to provoke in order to be more persuasive to the audience. Palta 6 Work Cited  Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/ethos>. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://literarydevices.net/logos/>. MOST TRUSTED  N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Millis N 2006, modified paper prepared for the 2006 Australian State of the Environment Committee, Department of the Environment and Heritage, Canberra, . <https://soe.environment.gov.au/download/reports> Palta 7 Figure 1 Palta 8 Figure 2