Ramos 1 Janel Ramos Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 02/26/2017 Yes, We Cannabis The picture of a marijuana leaf is a symbol that means many different things to many different types of people. Some people view it medicinally, as something to help themselves or people of their community, some view it as recreational and as something that is fun and makes their lives better, and some others view it with complete disapproval and crass. Either way, every person sees the plant and feels a type of emotion. Many organizations believe that negative effects outweigh the positive. Other organizations want a society where adults can have safe, affordable and legal access to marijuana, both medicinal and recreational. NORML is a stakeholder who believes in the safe and legal access to marijuana and wants to be an advocate towards the ending of all arrests related to marijuana. NORML uses imagery in their campaigns, very often, as they believe this is a very effective method of reaching the community. Many of their images contain facts about marijuana or an authoritative figure to help promote and advance their mission. They very often have the color green and some sort of symbol that means marijuana or a marijuana leaf. NORML uses ethos, a little bit of pathos, and logos in these images to connect with their audience and help them understand vision for marijuana and the fight for decriminalization. In the fight for marijuana, an appeal to a credible or authoritative figure, can be very useful. NORML uses that credibility to their advantage and brings one of the most authoritative figure available. They use a picture of the 44 th President Barack Obama smiling to promote their Ramos 2 38 th Annual Conference. In doing so, this an appeal to ethos. They bring a figure that will appeal to a very broad audience. Even so, this picture, can also, put off a very broad audience. The entire point of this picture, is to have a familiar face, who stood up for many people, who could not stand up for themselves and really did make a difference in the community. It also known, that Barack Obama actually smoked marijuana when he was younger. his 1995 memoir titled, from my Barack speaks very openly about his marijuana use in this statement, I blew a few smoke rings, remembering those years. Pot had helped, and booze; maybe a little blow when you could afford (James Munroe) The second picture, is much simpler. A picture of a marijuana leaf, with the quote that says, Deaths Caused by Smoking Marijuana: They state this fact with one hundred percent confidence. They paste the picture everywhere and in a way, tell people to go ahead and research because it is the truth. They make themselves a reliable and credible source, and state a fact about marijuana that is completely truthful. The appeal to ethos is extremely evident, even in their use of President Barack 2008 slogan. They color him in green and choose a picture of him with a very happy smile. This brings across the message that he supports this, is happy about it, and other people who support him should too. It also appeals to ethics, by choosing a man who has had a positive impact on many and more so, represented an extreme change for America, the first African American president, and beyond that, acceptance of something that may have not been accepted in the past. Ramos 3 Logical reasoning or the ability to allow the audience to see the logical facts behind an image used by a company or stakeholder, can help them to understand and interpret an image and be able to get the point they are trying to portray. In this way, NORML uses logos to help their reader see what is logical and reasonable about their mission and what they stand for. When thinking of logos, you want to ask evidence do I provide that convinces my reader that my argument is logical- that it makes (25; Hoffman, Wiggs). In the second image, NORML, makes the argument towards a logical appeal by using a very simple and straight forward fact. They use logos, by stating the fact, that literally no one has died from smoking marijuana. It is a very simple and plain picture with a fact that you can google and re-google and will be reaffirmed. They do not need to say anything more than that because the logical audience will go and research that and see that fact to be true. They do not expect them to just take their word for Ramos 4 it, but they know that their word is in fact the truth. There has yet to be a single reported death linked to cannabis overdose. In fact, you would have to consume 20,000 to 40,000 times your average dose in order for marijuana to kill you. That would be about 1,500 pounds of marijuana in 15 (Butterfield). This image is set to state the fact, that if something has not killed a single user, ever, how can it be that dangerous? It also mirrors certain anti-cigarette ads. There are ads with a lit cigarette that say things such as or other things and the amount of people who have died from it, may be listed. If something like cigarettes can be legal, causing around deaths per year, including more than 41,000 deaths resulting from secondhand smoke (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention), how can something that has caused no death in the hundreds of years of its use, be illegal? The image makes the audience think and reevaluate why exactly this drug is not completely legal for use, whether medicinal or recreational. This can also be understood by thinking about a emotion and how a company can relate to their emotions. With pathos, writers use images to a (25; Hoffman and Wigg) The reader may not see pathos as much in these images as much as other rhetorical appeals but that does not mean that it is not there. In the picture with Obama, by using his campaign slogan, a slogan that truthfully created hope and a need for change in so many people, NORML wants to allow the audience to feel that hope and that goodness that may have created for them. Obviously on the opposite spectrum, the other audience could feel someone upset or angry and this image due to Obama being on it and also promoting something they may not agree with. Either way, by using him, they are sure to get a reaction out of any audience who sees it. For the second picture, there is less pathos, due to the simplicity of the image and how straightforward it is. An audience would see that just feel like it makes sense, or research more. It allows them to Ramos 5 feel sort of quizzical in what marijuana actually is and does and allow them to do more research on the matter. No matter what the image, the rhetorical appeals can be identified and understood in ways NORML may not have even intended and that is the beauty of it. NORMLs images are all to attempt to help them further their agenda and mission move public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana by adults, and to serve as an advocate for consumers to assure they have access to high quality marijuana that is safe, convenient and (NORML.com). NORML truthfully want to help people understand marijuana and help them open their minds to what they believe is a beneficial and good. By using logos, they allow their audience to create a logical connection to marijuana and why it should be safe and legalized. By using ethos, they give the readers solid authority and credibility to further back up that connection. Finally, by using pathos, it not only allows them to make a connection it allows them to feel that connection and create their own solid opinion on the matter based on what is presented to them. Ramos 6 Sources Cited: About NORML. N.p., n.d. Web 15 Feb 2017 Butterfield, Delilah. Marijuana Deaths: How Many Are  HERB. N.p., 12 Jan. 2016. Web. 20 Feb 2017 Fast  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 20 Dec. 2016. Web. 20 Feb 2017 Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. President Obama Smoked Weed Hundreds Of Times, Not Once Or  Cannabis.net. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Feb. 2017.