Quneibi 1 Subhi Quneibi Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The Internet is Not a Luxury There exists the idea that all of humanity was created equal. This stands true whether a person believes in a god or not. It is part of a human rights as directly stated by numerous government foundations. A perfect example of this would be the United States Constitution, or more precisely the Bill of Rights, which was created exclusively to grant the American people rights. Thomas Jefferson stated; hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of This brings up the question as to why many of the ideas considered public today require so much just to access. The same should be applied to all aspects of life including our innovations and inventions. More specifically, the Internet which is one of the most popular innovation with almost the entire world employing it, should remain equal, open, and without restrictions which is more commonly known as Net Neutrality. There exists the idea that the Internet should be or as many refer to it, devolved. This idea, or plan, was actually composed in 2014 by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman at the time, Tom Wheeler. intention did not align with that of the consumer, placing much more restrictions on the internet than its current state. He planned to allow Internet providers the ability to discriminate between services and websites, and Quneibi 2 hypothetically, discriminate against the users. The discrimination would be composed of primarily to phases. In order for a person to access a certain website or even a specific feature, they would have to pay. This, in a sense, works like a padlock; it keeps out everyone who does not have its key. The key is public, but only accessible through paid transactions. Already requiring a fair amount of capital resources to access, it creates a sense of prioritization, based on how much more a person is willing to spend. This to idea was to be added to whatever charges the person was paying to access the internet. It existed as a basic subscription with a premium upgrade, like many of the websites, video games, or applications that exist on the web. The plan seemed so outrageous to the public that millions of people voiced their candid and blunt opinions, the unified call to action in turn resulted in refutal of the plan. The plan itself did not just disappear, instead it was modified to prevent internet users from experiencing unnecessary stress and protecting them from deceitful companies, that sought to take advantage of them. This revised plan, dubbed the Net Neutrality laws, had a huge amount of support and was approved in February of 2015. The idea of Net Neutrality is that internet users are guaranteed their online rights to freely roam the web. It holds back the Internet Service Providers (ISPs) like AT&T and Verizon who would otherwise limit most activity on the internet. as your phone company should not decide who you can call and what you say on that call, your ISP should not be concerned with the content you view or post (Freepress). President Obama had also distinctively made it clear that Internet is not a luxury, it is a at the time (Olanoff). This implied that Net Neutrality is, in a sense, the same as the Constitution or the Bill of Rights, as it protects human rights online. The idea is established and has a huge amount of support from the public, yet it also faces a great deal of opposition, one that has since been silenced. Quneibi 3 The Net Neutrality laws now reface a new threat, one larger than anticipated, with President Trump in office (Fung). The newly elected president had recently picked a fresh chairman for the FCC, one who of course shares the same political party preference (McKinnon). Ajit Pai now sits at the top of the federal commission with his robust hatred towards the Net Neutrality laws. As with all innovative ideas serving the public, there are those who oppose for the sake of monetary assets. Pai is indeed part of that opposition, promising bring a weed whacker to excessive government (Pressman) and those rules that are holding back investment, innovation and job (Puzzanghera). This certainly runs an extensive risk to the public, taking away the laws that once protected them for financial gains. In fact, Mignon Clyburn, one of the three sitting members of the FCC, warned that such an action will bring harm to the consumers as than working to close the digital divide, this action widens the (Kang). It is quite clear that the laws were put into place to protect consumers and keeping them should be the only solution. Thankfully the democratic party promises to fight any legislation that may attempt to remove or break down the Net Neutrality rules, but that may not be enough. With the rules that were placed to keep the internet free, open, and equal now at risk it is important to act fast. If these rules do reach an end it will only harm us, the consumers. If we do not attempt to pursue the preserving of these laws then who will? The companies that make money off of it? Certainly not. The American Library Association also believes the internet is of all peoples to seek and receive information from all points of view without (Todaro). Even our public libraries stand for the freedom and fairness Net Neutrality brings us, as it as an of our and to our (Breeding) Thor Benson had once said is no free expression when you have to pay extra to stand on the soap Quneibi 4 What exactly is the point of having access to the internet if one has to pay extra to use it? The only solution is to group together and let our voices be heard. We need to inform our government that we are not happy with such decisions and will never be. We have done it once before and will always be able to do it again. There are plenty of ways you can provide aid. You could sign plenty of petitions through the internet, advocate locally and notify your senators, or even join an organization to join the fight. I for one, have already took part in putting this to end and suggest you do the same. It has been done before and can be done again. Save the Internet, is such an organization, aiming to keep Net Neutrality alive by joining millions of Americans together. Those millions of people use the internet in society whether it is a phone, computer, TV, or even fridge and so far, it has been a seemingly smooth experience. Though that definitely would not be the case if fast lanes and upgrades come to the scene, which is something they definitely do not want to see, and something you should not want to see. I for one will not stand around and watch these avaricious parties attempt to take away what we love the most. I encourage you to help out, stay involved, inform those around you, and save the internet because it is not a luxury, it is a necessity. Quneibi 5 Works Cited Breeding, Marshall. Net Neutrality: Libraries Rally to Preserve the Open  Smart Libraries Newsletter, no. 3, 2011, p. 2. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sggo&AN=edsgcl.251724764&site=eds-live. Accessed 5 May 2017. Copps, Michael. privacy law is about more than selling Chicago Tribune, Chicago Tribune, 19 Apr. 2017, www.chicagotribune.com/news/opinion/commentary/ct- net-neutrality-open-internet-fcc-perspec-0420-20170419-story.html. Accessed 20 Apr. 2017. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Freepress. Neutrality: What You Need to Know Free Press, www.freepress.net/net- neutrality-what-you-need-know-now. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Fung, Brian. Analysis: The Future of Net Neutrality in  The Washington Post, 2017. EBSCOhost, https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the- switch/wp/2017/04/05/the-future-of-net-neutrality-in-trumps- Accessed 5 May 2017. Kang, Cecilia. F.C.C. Pick Quickly Targets Net Neutrality The New York Times, The New York Times, 5 Feb. 2017, www.nytimes.com/2017/02/05/technology/trumps-fcc-quickly-targets-net-neutrality- Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. McKinnon, John. Pai, Donald FCC Pick, Set to Target Net The Wall Street Journal, The Wall Street Journal, 24 Jan. 2017, https://www.wsj.com/articles/ajit- Quneibi 6 pai-donald-trumps-fcc-pick-set-to-target-net-neutrality-1485259207. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Olanoff, Drew. Obama: Internet Is Not A Luxury, It Is A TechCrunch, TechCrunch, 15 July 2015, www.techcrunch.com/2015/07/15/internet-for- everyone/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Pressman, Aaron. How FCC Head Plans to Attack Net  Fortune.Com, 25 Apr. 2017, p. 99. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=bah&AN=122725462&site=eds-live. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017 Puzzanghera, Jim. names new FCC chairman: Ajit Pai, who wants to take a to net Los Angeles Times, Los Angeles Times, 23 Jan. 2017, www.latimes.com/business/la-fi-pai-fcc-chairman-20170123-story.html. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Todaro, Julie. neutrality: libraries stand for freedom and TheHill, TheHill, 19 Apr. 2017, www.thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/politics/329393-net- neutrality-americas-libraries-stand-for-freedom-and-fairness. Accessed 20 Apr. 2017.