Lopez 1 Maximiliano Lopez Instructor Townsend ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Offshore Oil Drilling in the Arctic Region Imagine a world where the beaches are full of water that is too hot to be comfortable in while swimming. A world where peninsulas like the state of Florida no longer exist because of rising sea levels. One of the key factors that may lead to this horrible future is the destruction of the Arctic region, home of many of the icebergs that are ready to melt. Many oil companies are looking to buy many parts of the Arctic region to explore for oil; this is due to a belief that there may be a source of oil in this region. Organizations that are pro-environment, like Oceana, have already done many things to prevent this from happening. However, new leaders in the world have already planned to go along with the plans of these oil companies, and now is the time to take part in the fight against offshore oil drilling in the Arctic region. As citizens of the planet and residents of Florida, we should be on our heels to protect the Arctic at all costs through petitions and conservation, because it is the key to the preservation of our home called Florida. In recent years, a lot of controversy has been sparked from the topic of oil drilling around the world. From fluctuating oil prices, oil spills, and construction of big mainland oil pipelines, oil has always been the biggest non-renewable resource to draw the highest controversy. It made headlines when one of the big oil companies called British Petroleum, more commonly known as just BP, spilled millions of gallons of crude oil in one of the biggest bodies of water in the world, the Gulf of Mexico. It was on April 20, 2010 when the Deepwater Horizon Oil Rig sunk from a big explosion on it (Frost). This led to a pipeline bursting underwater and cameras revealed that Lopez 2 the BP pipe was leaking oil and gas on the ocean floor about 42 miles off the coast of Louisiana (Frost). By the time the well was capped on July 15 th , 2010 (87 days later), an estimated 3.19 million barrels of oil had already leaked into the Gulf of Mexico (Frost). This oil spill was then officially proclaimed the worst oil spill in United States history. Another event that happened recently and is relevant to the Arctic region and the United States is an oil spill that occurred on April 13 th , 2017 in an oil well on North Slope near Prudhoe Bay (Molinski). This oil spill occurred in the Arctic region, and Alaska has always had problems from oil spills, specifically from British Petroleum (BP) (Molinski). This shows that many mistakes have already happened and is just evidence of the global warming that is already happening. In this oil spill, there is a combination of oil and natural gas leaking from it, but in comparison, a lot more natural gas is leaking from it. This could lead to a bigger explosion that will result in more oil being spill and this will inevitably destroy the environment. Even though there have been efforts to stop oil from being explored for in the Arctic region, big oil companies like BP have still been able to do so. It is time that the citizens of the Earth should come to realize that oil is not the way to go, and this is exactly what the planet-friendly organization Oceana aims to do. In pushing forward anti-oil legislation, Oceana aims to make it difficult for oil companies to explore for oil in the region. All people on this Earth should pay attention to the controversial topic of offshore oil drilling because it will ultimately decide the survival of our planet. The usage of oil has always been commonly associated with global warming, the leading factor in rising sea levels and temperature of the oceans. Most importantly, for those who live in Florida, you obviously know that we live in a peninsula, a body of land that is surrounded by water on three sides. So, if the sea levels in the oceans continue to rise, then the water will ultimately force the land of Florida Lopez 3 to succumb to being underwater. Not only that, but the temperature in the waters of the oceans will rise to a point where it is not comfortable to be in and even could be harmful. It could be harmful to not only humans, but as well as all organisms that call the ocean their home. In Florida, climate change is expected to lead to increased flooding along the coast and inland, intrusion of salt water into the underground freshwater supply, decrease in property values, and an increase in insurance costs (Wallman). When this happens, everyone can say goodbye to everything that they have come to know about Florida, and soon enough, most of the islands and lands surrounded by water will have suffered the same fate. Floridians must get involved before this becomes an actual reality. Even though the phenomenon of rising sea levels and temperatures in the ocean is a real thing, most people in power around the world still decide to support the drilling for oil in the Arctic region, like the new President of the United States, Donald Trump. In a social media campaign by Oceana, they have put forth a petition to let the United States Congress know what they think about President Donald Offshore Drilling Agenda (Oceana). This social media campaign on Facebook allows many of the millions of people who use this social media website to become aware of what President Donald Trump plans to do with the Arctic region. If President Donald Trump is successful with what he plans to do with the Arctic, then who knows what may be his next target. The success of this agenda would mean for the doom of many of the ecosystems around the world for wherever Donald Trump would most likely pursue to allow for drilling for oil. Just imagine if he chose to pursue areas near the beaches of Florida, and an oil spill occurred just miles off the coast. We might as well say goodbye to our homes. We as citizens of a piece of land that is almost surrounded by water on all sides must act to prevent any harm to be done to the land we live on and the ocean that surrounds us. There are Lopez 4 plenty of organizations that push for anti-oil drilling legislation and actions like Oceana, Greenpeace, Earth Justice, and Center for Biological Diversity. Oceana, like those other organizations, argue that the burning of fossil fuels is the leading source of carbon pollution, which contributes to global warming and ocean acidification (Kkostadinov). One thing that can be done is to sign up for petitions supported by these organizations and share the knowledge that they give to you on this topic. There are also many activities that can be signed up for: like beach clean-ups, mission trips to clean up the effects of oil spills that have already happened, and donating to organizations that will make sure the ocean is protected from oil activities. If we do not take any action at all, people like President Donald Trump will push forward plans to contaminate the ecosystems of the world by drilling for oil in the oceans. Every person must act to stop the destruction of the planet we call home. Lopez 5 Works Cited Frost, Emily. Oil Ocean Portal Smithsonian, National Museum of Natural History, 5 Jan. 2017, ocean.si.edu/gulf-oil-spill. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Kkostadinov. Oil Drilling: The U.S. Arctic Oceana USA, Oceana, 30 Jan. 2017, usa.oceana.org/responsible-fishing/offshore-oil-drilling-us-arctic-ocean. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Molinski, Dan. Oil Well in Alaska Spills out of MarketWatch, Ocean Portal, 16 Apr. 2017, www.marketwatch.com/story/bp-oil-well-in-alaska-spills-out-of-control- 2017-04-16. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Oceana. Congress: Stop Offshore Drilling Oceana: Protecting the Oceans, Oceana, 2017, act.oceana.org/page/7906/petition/1. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Wallman, Brittany. Florida Continues Prep for Sea Level Sun-Sentinel.com, Sun Sentinel, 24 Feb. 2017, http://www.sun-sentinel.com/local/broward/broward-politics- blog/fl-reg-climate-change-sofla-20170221-story.html. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017.