Cole 1 Rachel Cole Professor Campbell ENC 1102.089 10 April 2017 Put an End to Standardized Testing Standardized testing began in 1845 when Horace Mann designed and administered the first standardized test in the Boston public school district (Maranto 1). Standardized testing began to grow in popularity through out the nineteenth century. 1918 and 1932 the number of standardized tests available for school use grew from 100 to more than (Maranto 3). It has now become a way to separate students based off their testing abilities. Standardized tests are given out every year for admission to colleges, certifications, end of course testing, advance placement, and more. The National Education Association (NEA) represents teachers, faculty, and staff to ensure that public education continues to exceed. They believe that school districts should use locally developed tests instead of statewide-standardized tests. Additionally, teachers fear that testing is all students do nowadays. Students should go to school to learn, not to be tested. Parents, students need you to put an end to standardized testing by signing a petition, opting your child out of testing, and supporting the NEA to produce local tests. The first standardized test was created and administered in 1845 in response to public concerns about the educational system (Moulthrop 74). Parents were concerned that the teachers and the education system itself were unstructured. Now, centuries later, schools still require students to take a standardized test before being admitted to a college, for advanced placement, and in order to graduate high school. Teachers feel pressured to teach strictly what is going to be Cole 2 on the test so the students will do well. When a student does well on a state test it reflects that the teacher is the best in the state because his or her students did so well. Continually, it shows that the school is a good school to go to. But schools and teachers should not be in competition with each other. It is unhealthy and unfair to the student who is not good at the four subjects he or she is tested on. These four subjects that students are typically tested on are: English, mathematics, reading, and science. The United States Department of Education needs to stop issuing standardized tests as a way to measure and regulate education. Students should be getting a well-rounded education to prepare them for life. By signing a petition, the United States Department of Education will recognized this issue and stop administering standardized tests in schools (Varon). By simply typing, standardized testing on Google, ten petitions should pop up for you to electronically sign. Make a difference in your life today by taking five minutes to sign a petition against standardized testing. The average student takes about 110 tests between kindergarten and twelfth grade (Schaeffer). This is an unnecessarily high number for an eighteen-year-old student. You can opt your child out of standardized testing by simply writing a letter to the principal of the school. The Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) recognizes your right, as a parent, to refuse testing in states with opt-out laws (Schaeffer). These states include: California, Oregon, and Colorado (Schaeffer). In other words, you have nothing to lose by opting your child out of standardized testing. the U.S., more than two-thirds of a million public school students refused to take standardized exams during the 2015 testing (Schaeffer). By opting your child, you can change the way the school system teaches. The NEA, founded in 1857, believes that tests should be locally produced as opposed to nationwide testing. The NEA believes that testing every student on the same material is simply Cole 3 not fair. Every person is unique in his or her own way and they should not be punished for being bad at something Continually, Knoester stated, suggests that high-stakes standardized testing has played a negative role in the segregation of children by race and class in (2). Schools with lower than average test scores (typically located in poverty African American neighborhoods) are pressured to teach only the material that will be on the test to try and keep up with other schools (Knoester 3). As a result, this pressure from tests can cause an unfair advantage to low-income schools. Knoester believes that it is prejudicial to test students with the exact same material (3). In summation, each student should be tested on the material they have learned in their community and what they are good at. The NEA believes that, assessments provide better and faster feedback that helps drive real improvements in teaching and State tests are the ones that are stressing kids out. According to Joseph Spector, in ten school psychologists said the Common Core learning standards, which includes state exams for students in third through eighth grades each April, has increased (1). Locally developed tests provide a more fair analysis of the students. As a student, I used to think testing was a fair way to evaluate everyone. A well-known college test to many students is the SAT. The SAT is a college placement test that was created by an organization called ETS in 1926 ETS is a nonprofit organization founded in 1947 by three powerful organizations: the American Council on Education, the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, and the College Entrance Examination Board These three nonprofit organizations came together to create a powerful organization called the ETS. strive to provide innovative and meaningful measurement solutions that improve teaching and learning, expand educational opportunities, and inform Cole 4 (McMahon) . This organization holds a crucial role in standardized testing by making over fifty million tests in 180 countries every year Each president presented his own version of school reform (Maranto 3). Nation at proposed by President Ronald Reagan stated that standardized tests are a critical step for evaluating the progress of students. Also, Child Left Behind and to the are all examples of presidents supporting standardizing testing (McMahon). McMahon believes that if these presidents all supported standardized testing than we should support it as well. However, standardized testing is outdated and unfair to us students. How can we all be expected to be good at four subjects and if we are bad at those subjects then we do not get into the college of our dreams. Standardized testing can not measure a students true skill, because every student is unique. Students should be going to school to learn, not to be taught the test. In conclusion, standardized testing was an idea started in the mid and is now outdated. With advances in different types of careers and the variety of majors offered in college there should not be a for any part of life. Every student is unique in his or her own way and a standardized test that only tests students on four subjects is an unfair way to judge a particular student. Additionally, standardized tests put pressure on teachers to only teach students what will be on the test and this results in students not being well rounded. Students need you to put an end to standardized testing by signing a petition, opting your child out of testing, and supporting the NEA to produce local tests. Cole 5 Works Cited Knoester, Matthew and Wayne Au. Standardized testing and school segregation: like tinder for Race Ethnicity and Education, Jan. 2017. Vol. 20, no. 1, pp. 1-14, accessed 23 Jan. 2017. Maranto, Julie. Effect of Standardized Testing on Historical Literacy and Educational Reform in the ERIC, 2015. Vol. 3, pp. 1-8, accessed 11 April 2017. McMahon, Issitt. Salem Press Encyclopedia, Jan. 2016, accessed 10 April 2017. Moulthrop, Robert. Issues and Peabody Journal of Education, Jan. 1981. Vol. 58, no.2, pp. 72-83, accessed 10 April 2017. ETS. https://www.ets.org/about/who/heritage/, 2017. of Standardized ETS. 2017. Schaeffer, Robert. Say No to Standardized Tests: Why and How to Opt Fair Test, March 2017, accessed 11 April 2017. Spector, Joseph. Core tests giving kids anxiety, psychologists Lohud, 20Nov. 2015, accessed 11 April 2017. Varon, Joshua. Standardized Testing in Public ForceChange, April 2012, accessed 10 April 2017.