Harrison 1 Morgan Harrison Professor Theodosiou ENC 1102 23 February 2017 Putting an End to Domestic Violence In the United States, about 20 people are physically abused per minute by an intimate partner. (NCADV). Amnesty International works tirelessly to put a stop to domestic violence and child abuse. This is an international human rights movement that is trying to achieve a world where everyone has human rights. They stand up to governments and keep them accountable, which means making sure they hold true to their promises while upholding utmost respect to international law (Our Mission). Amnesty International shines a light on the human rights issues at hand such as domestic violence, child abuse, human trafficking, and sex slavery, to name a few. The images that are pictured are advertisements published by Amnesty International. The first image is working to prevent child abuse and the second image is working to prevent domestic violence. Unfortunately, these work hand in hand. Therefore, for Amnesty International to have a larger impact in preventing these types of abuse, they need to approach both because a decrease in one could eventually mean a decrease in the other. These images from Amnesty International use rhetorical appeals to help prevent abuse from happening. Amnesty International is a human rights organization around the world that works to put an end to various human rights issues. It was founded in 1961 in the United Kingdom by Peter Benenson. He was inspired after reading an article regarding two students that were arrested for raising a toast to freedom. The mission of Amnesty International is to create a Harrison 2 in which every person regardless of race, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation or gender identity enjoys all of the human rights enshrined in the UDHR and other internationally recognized human rights (Our Mission). The founder was a selfless man that decided to put his foot down and make a stand that would change the world. Melanie-Angela Neuilly, a Professor of Criminology, stated that, see that abusers overwhelming come from abusive background, and thus only replicate patterns they have learned during their (CDV: Domestic Violence and the Children in its Shadow). Amnesty International is working tirelessly to stop this cycle. The audience of these two advertisements is everyone. It is evident that image 1 is speaking to all viewers because the girl is faced straight forward, or directly facing the viewer. The words, it was that easy, we need shows that it is talking to whoever is viewing the advertisement because it does not address a specific person, gender, or socioeconomic class. The sentence on the advertisement implies that the viewer made an excuse that the children that are being abused do not need help to get out of the situation or that someone else would surely help them. So, in a sense, it could be said that the advertisement is aimed towards those who are more hesitant to act. Image 2 is aimed toward everyone also. The hand has nothing around it that would limit who it was talking to. Though, since it asks for support, it could be assumed that it is geared towards an audience that has money to give to Amnesty International. The hand is also faced directly at the viewer but not in an aggressive way. It is flat on what appears to be a table or raised in front of a white wall. This implies that the image is not speaking to the victims of abuse, because the hand would look more aggressive and they are the ones that need help. Harrison 3 Ethos is a of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (Rhetoric Really Matters 27). Both in image 1 and in image 2, the organization that published the advertisements are from Amnesty International. As stated previously, Amnesty International is an international human rights movement organization. To establish credibility and trust, the website and logo are on the ads. More specifically, Image 1 has the URL and the colors yellow and black, which are the colors of Amnesty International. Image 2 has the URL and the logo. This tells the audience that the organization is established enough to have these things and that it is not just a random group of people that published it. Amnesty International is a well-known movement so just putting the name of their organization on their advertisements will help people see their name and recognize it. Logos is the to logic . . . it is the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (Rhetoric Really Matters 32). In image 1, the advertisement is trying to encourage the audience to think about how hard it must be for the children caught up in child abuse. A picture of a young girl with a sad look on her face and messy hair implies that she had been through something unsettling prior to the picture being taken. The little girl has a black eye with a line around it that looks like a peel off sticker. This is implying that the only person that can fix the black eye (her abusive situation) is the person looking at the image. The words on the image imply that it is not easy to get out of the situation she is in. It nonchalantly calls out the group of people that choose not to see how often abuse happens or possibly uses the excuse, I cannot do anything about it, they should just stay away from their or excuses such as this that point blame to the victims. This quote directly calls these people out saying that if the kids could get out of the Harrison 4 situation themselves, child abuse would not be an issue to begin with. It supplies no information or statistics on the subject, just that it is an issue and that the children need help. In image 2, the advertisement evokes thought by explicitly telling the audience to think about what the victim looks like if the hand is that bloody. It also does not give any information or statistics on the issue of domestic violence. The image has a somewhat gory photo of a bloody hand that captures the attention. Since the words are off to the side of the hand, it assumes that the audience will want to figure out more about the advertisement and what it is about. The ad uses the word to imply how awful domestic violence is. The open-ended nature of the words on the advertisement calls for the audience to think about what the victim looks like if the hand is that bloody. Having such an open-ended sentence lets the mind wander straight to the worst-case scenario. For each person, the image that comes to mind of the victim is different depending on each background. Someone that has been abused before might have an idea from personal experience of what the victim might look like. Others might only think of a black eye or a bruise on the arm. Either way, each person will come up with a different image in their head of what the victim might look like. The photo is bleak in color because of the plain white background and the tan hand which creates a depressing tone. This could be a representation that the life is unhappy due to the actions. The only color in the picture is the hand of the abuser and the background, which is colorless, is behind the hand. It is common that the victim will hide in the shadows and try to remain under the radar in public because of the abuser. Pathos is a device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the (Rhetoric Really Matters 37). In image 1, it appeals to the Harrison 5 pity using the young black eye and the emotional state she appears to be in. Amnesty International also uses the caption on the image to be quite straightforward about the meaning. Image 2 also appeals to the pity. To do so, they used emotive language and a bloody picture. The different parts of the images work together to bring about guilt, sadness, pity, and anger. These emotions are trying to be created by Amnesty International to light a fire in the heart to act against this crime and to donate to the cause, which is why it asks for support as one of the last things your eyes see in the image. Kairos is the to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Rhetoric Really Matters 41). For both images, the sense of the urgency and timeliness is that it is happening now and that if the audience does not help the victims, they will not get out of their situation. The wounds in both images look as if they happened recently and both images ask for support or help from the audience for the victims. Image 1 has the female child. Society often sees that description of a person and thinks that they are defenseless. The timeliness of this image is that she cannot help herself so someone needs to do it for her. Image 2 does not show the victim which leads the viewer to think it will happen again or that the victim is not being helped. This also instills a sense of timeliness. Logical Fallacies are where the use of logic misleads the audience, uses flawed reasoning, or simply does not make (Rhetoric Really Matters 53). In image 1, it uses the logical fallacy of a slippery slope. This is created because the words on the image imply that if the person viewing the advertisement does not get involved, the children will not be able to get out of the abusive situation. This is a slippery slope because chances are, other people in the life are more likely to be able to help the children rather than a stranger. Harrison 6 Although it would be helpful for the viewer to donate money to help the children, if the viewer does not donate, it does not necessarily mean the child will not get help. Image 2 uses the logical fallacy of argument by emotive language because it uses the word to describe the abusive situations that the victims are in. This is trying to create a response from the audience by using such language. It does not provide background information to back up the claim that domestic abuse is torture. These two advertisements work together to bring attention to the issue of family violence. This works for the stakeholder to spread awareness and ask for support at the same time. Advertisements such as these are a great way to get the word out about issues because they are attention captivating. Doing so helps Amnesty International because it gets their name out there worldwide to as many viewers as possible. This would in turn raise money for their organization which they could use to reach their goal of human rights for everyone regardless of who they are. In conclusion, Amnesty International is an organization that spreads awareness worldwide on human right issues. They strive to create a world that people have their rights and those around them acknowledge it. They publish advertisements that help spread awareness and asks for support. In the two images analyzed in this paper, Amnesty International used rhetorical appeals to present a cause. They used gory images that communicated the truth of the situations at hand. Both images included the name of the organization so that the viewers of the advertisements could learn more or donate to the cause. This is an effort to spread awareness and get support to further the success of Amnesty International. In 2015, the total net assets of Amnesty International was $20,668,118 (Annual Report 2015 16). This goes to show that this organization handles a large amount of money Harrison 7 and can reach a huge group of people. The fact that they have such a large net asset proves that advertisements like these make a difference to help them reach their goal. Harrison 8 Works Cited Domestic Violence and the Children in the  Rawhide. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Our  Amnesty International USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.  Statistics. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. 201, Annual Report. AMNESTY (n.d.): n. pag. Amnesty International. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.