Rodhouse 1 Nicholas Rodhouse Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 March 19 2017 Cybersecurity There is a whole separate world out there called cyberspace, where one can order goods, communicate with others, and even work to earn money. and its underlying infrastructure are vulnerable to a wide range of risk stemming from both physical and cyber threats and (dhs.gov) says the department of homeland security. The department of homeland security (dhs) is on the front line of these cyberattacks. They have a large team of technology soldiers out there hunting for cyber-attackers. These two ads presented at the bottom of the essay depict the goals and duty of the dhs, which is to protect the American people. The department of homeland security uses all forms of rhetorical appeal to advertise their duty to protect, not only the American people, but their cyber-world as well. The mission statement is honor and integrity, we will safeguard the American people, our homeland, and our (dhs.gov) Their purpose is to protect the American people from attacks, either on the web or in reality. Their over goals are to stop terrorists, hackers, scammers, and identity thieves and any other threatening attacks on American soil. The dhs consists of than 200,000 men and women that entrusted with ensuring that the homeland is safe, secure, and resilient against terrorism and other (Erdtmann, 1) Therefore the dhs is a strong organization; one strong enough to stop almost any cyber-attack. The two ads used by the dhs tell us a lot about what they do to keep our nation safe. In these two photos the DHS takes two different sides of advertising. The first photo uses words Rodhouse 2 such as identify, protect, detect, respond and recover to advertise what the DHS is actually doing for cybersecurity. The first image informs the viewer of the uses of cybersecurity on the web, while the second one calls more the viewers pathos. The second image is of a girl smiling, as if she has no worries in the world, with the phrase you safe next to it. They use this image to advertise the need for cybersecurity in our country. These photos show the viewer how the dhs uses cybersecurity to protect the people of the United identity. The dhs uses ethos as a form of rhetorical appeal in both of these advertisement photos. The first photo has the logo in the top left corner, which establishes credibility. This establishes credibility, because the dhs is a credible, government organization that has long been established. The first ad also uses US-CERT, a U.S. computer technology emergency team, who respond to cyber-threats, hacking, and other IT issues. The second image also uses ethos to appeal to its viewers. The bottom right corner of the image says to you by dhs and They use the dhs to establish credibility for the same reason they used the logo in the first ad. They also uses stop.think.connect to establish credibility, who are global online safety awareness campaign to help all digital citizens stay safer and more secure (stop.think.connect.org) Both of these images also use logos to appeal to their viewer. The first image has a list of words; identify, protect, detect, respond and recover. This stands for what the cybersecurity team actually does for the dhs. They identify threats, protect the user, detect the issue, respond to the issue accordingly, and recover the lost information. The first image is a web page. The dhs did this, because that is where the threats are hiding. The next image is a headshot of a girl smiling, this is a representation of a profile picture. This reflects the identity. Identity theft is one of the leading crimes committed on the internet. This picture also has brackets around her face and Rodhouse 3 the phrase you next to it. This represents the dangers out there in the cyber-world, which cannot be easily identifiable. Threats to cybersecurity can be on any link someone clicks or website someone browses, which sparks the question: are you really safe out there? Most of the time yes, but places where one feels the safest can have the worst attacks. For example, Facebook and other social media sites can be used to get information, in order to steal your identity. These images also both use the rhetorical appeal, pathos, to appeal to the emotion. The first image is a webpage itself on the dhs. This makes the viewer feel protected with the dhs, due to their advanced research in cybersecurity. It also has titles on the webpage, like cybersecurity evaluation tool. This makes the viewer skeptical on whether they are protected or not, therefore causing them to visit this page and use this tool to evaluate their safety rating. This puts fear in the viewer as well, fear that they might be at risk and not realize it. The second image triggers emotional reactions in its viewer as well. The second image is frightening, because depicts a girl smiling with you safe next to her. This, much like the first image, brings fear into the viewer. Fear that even those who think they are safe might fall victim to an attack. It then has a link to visit an online resource to This makes the viewer feel safe under the protection of the dhs, because they can identify if someone has fallen victim to a cyber-attack. These images use Kairos to inflict a sense of urgency in their viewer. The first image uses the words on the ad to call an immediate action in its viewer. The second image has a link to see if one has fell victim to an attack. In the second image, after the dhs inflicts fear in the viewer; they tell the viewer to follow a link to check on their own cybersecurity. This calls the viewer to action right there and develops a sense of urgency in them. It is only fitting that the Rodhouse 4 dhs sparks urgency in their viewer, because these attacks are very serious, so serious that the FBI says that of dollars are lost every year repairing systems hit by such attacks. Some take down vital systems, disrupting and sometimes disabling the work of hospitals, banks, and 9-1-1 services around the (fbi.gov) The Department of Homeland Security uses ethos, logos, pathos and Kairos as a form a rhetorical appeal to advertise their mission. They use their logo to establish ethos, words and images as logos, appeal to the emotions with pathos, and call out a sense of urgency using Kairos. Cyber-threats lurk around every corner of the web. They can steal identity, money, and many other valuable commodities. In order to combat this the department of homeland security has partnered up with other organizations; like the FBI, CIA, and many others. Their intentions are to stop these cyber-predators and make the internet a safer, more secure place. Their mission is contribute to enhancing the security and resilience of the critical information infrastructure and the (dhs.org) The department of homeland security is and will be the driving factor to destroy cyber-threats. Rodhouse 5 image 1 image 2 Rodhouse 6 Work Cited Cyber  FBI. FBI, 13 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Cyber Security  Cyber Security Division Homeland Security. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Erdtmann, Frederick. Advancing Workforce Health at the Department of Homeland Security: Protecting Those Who Protect  Military Medicine 181.2 (2016): 93-95. Web.