Meneghel 1 Artur Meneghel Ins. Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 9 April 2017 Marijuana Legalization: Why Not? is the most popular illegal drug. Between 2.8% and 5.0% of the population aged uses cannabis at least once a (Ours,993). This and many other factors turned into one of the biggest trending topics of the last couple decades. It all began in 1996 when California legalized the production and sale of cannabis for medicinal purposes, becoming the first American state to oppose Federal law under this subject. It not only initiated a new era for the marijuana movement, but it also opened doors for researchers to have easier access to the plant, resulting in more information regarding the effects of its use on health. Finally, in 2014 the first recreational marijuana dispensary in America was inaugurated, in the state of Colorado, even though the legalization law in that state was passed in 2012. Today any adult over the age of 21 can purchase cannabis for recreational use in eight American states, which was impossible for a long time. Marijuana has proven to be less harmful then several drugs you can purchase legally, it also has shown to be beneficial to people with health issues, so it should eventually be legalized for recreational use, but more urgently for medicinal use. are at least two active chemicals in marijuana that researchers think have medicinal (Loria). Research about Marijuana is just at an initial phase, but the usage of products that contain CDB and THC, has shown very positive effects on the lives of people with terminal and chronical diseases, such as sclerosis, cancer, and Cannabis is also believed to be Meneghel 2 beneficial for creativity, sleep disorders, anxiety, and even fitness as Kevin Loria states: only are pot users skinnier, but their body has a healthier response to (para 51). The new legalization laws also opened doors for the marijuana market, several different ways of consumption have been developed, that do not necessarily involve smoking. Products such as THC and CDB oils are very popular because many people rather eat than smoke, also vaporizers, that eliminate 98% of the carcinogenic agents in the smoke, are a trendy option for users. Even though many people believe smoking marijuana is harmful to their health, it is not, and scientists say that it might even reverse the bad effects of tobacco use. Researchers still have a long path towards unveiling all mysteries about cannabis, but most of the recent discoveries are positive and support legalization. to the states that have already legalized marijuana, about 1 in 4 Americans now live in a state where pot is legal. It continues a growing momentum toward a state-by- state relaxation of marijuana (Paulson). Yes 25% of the United population live in a legal cannabis environment, and no, there crazy people everywhere. Recreational marijuana is a delicate topic, but honestly every person who enjoys a glass of wine, or beer, or any legal narcotic, and is against legalization is a hypocrite. Adults should have the choice to enjoy some weed instead of alcohol. Besides marijuana sales generate millions of worth of tax money, every year, it also ends drug traffic, gives consumers a quality guarantee, and creates jobs. Also, there was a huge decay on traffic accidents in all states that legalized marijuana for recreational purposes, and Jack Healy said that number of robberies from January through April fell by 4.8 percent from the same time in 2013, and assaults were down by 3.7 when talking about criminality in the state of Colorado in 2014. Meneghel 3 Super athletes such as Michael Phelps and Usain Bolt have outspokenly used pot for its recovering benefits, after extreme workouts, and in 2016 the Olympic Committee removed marijuana from the list of prohibited substances for athletes. Some believe that Marijuana Legalization, for recreational and medicinal purposes is not a good option because it increases the availability of the drug for young people, and increases consumption as a general. In the first months of recreational legalization there were some cases of kids getting weed products from their elders and their parents, and hospital officials say they are treating growing numbers of children and adults sickened by potent doses of edible (Healy). But these cases do not amount to those of kids getting easy access to tobacco and alcohol products, from their parents, and even from stores. The marijuana legalization movement has a bright future, with more and more research being done, the foundation of good thoughts regarding cannabis is reinforced. In a society where adults can legally buy alcohol and tobacco at any convenience store, there is no evidential reasoning for marijuana to be seen with bad eyes, it is far less harmful than the other legal narcotics. Besides cannabis changes the life of many people with health issues, there is proof of massive improvement in the effects relief in hard treatments such as chemo, and weed also changes the lives of the elderly that suffer with disease and disease. All this benefits added to lowered criminality, less traffic accidents, millions of dollars in tax revenue that are going to be put back in society, and many others. The money spent on the war against weed trafficking put be redirected to education and health, as the government has more control of the production of the plant. Cannabis was considered an over the counter drug, which up until the could be bought at your local pharmacy for pain and anxiety relief, but for inaccurate reasons all American states started banning the production, sale, and Meneghel 4 consumption of the plant. The remaining question is why something that is natural and was considered an everyday thing for many, all the sudden became demonized and prohibited, even though it provides several benefits for recreational, but most importantly medicinal usage. Meneghel 5 Works Cited Healy, Jack. After 5 Months of Sales, Colorado Sees the Downside of a Legal  The New York Times. The New York Times, 31 May 2014. Web. 19 Feb. 2017 Ours, Jan C. Van, and Jenny Williams. Cannabis Use And Its Effects On Health, Education And Labor Market  University of Journal of Economic Surveys 29.5 (2014): 993-1010. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Paulson, Amanda. legalization: big wins in California and The Christian Science Monitor 10 Nov 2016: ProQuest. Web. 11 Feb 2017. Welsh, Jennifer, and Kevin Loria. 23 Health Benefits Of  Business Insider. Business Insider, 20 Apr. 2014. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.