Dubas 1 Kayla Dubas Instructor Missler Composition II 30 April 2017 Physician-Assisted Suicide in New York Do you know anyone with a terminal illness? If so, they are probably unaware of all the options they have when it comes to their healthcare decisions. Physician assisted suicide is one of the options that most patients are unaware of. California, Oregon, Colorado, Vermont, and Washington, have already taken the initiative and legalized this form of treatment (How to access and use death with dignity laws). When it comes to New York, they are one of many states who are considering legalizing physician-assisted suicide. In May of 2016, the bill to legalize this treatment was proposed and is currently still pending approval (New York). Many states, like New York, are lenient in legalizing this due to the controversy that comes along with it. Even though some people of New York believe that physician-assisted suicide is immoral, New York University is holding a march on May 14 th through New York City to prove that this form of treatment allows for terminally ill patients that are in pain to have options and control at the end of their life. Physician-assisted suicide is an end of life option of a terminally ill patient that meets all of the criteria. The requirements that must be met are being 18 years of age or older, a resident of a state where it is legal, must be diagnosed with a terminal illness with six months or less to live, must be mentally competent, and must be approved by two physicians (How to access and use death with dignity laws). These requirements help to debunk the misconceptions that this Dubas 2 treatment holds. The criteria are a lot stricter than most people know, proving that this is not an easy thing to be able to take advantage of. Despite these strict requirements for physician assisted suicide, most people assume that this treatment should not be legalized due to the abuse that can follow it. This treatment has so many qualifications that must be met that it makes it hard to abuse it. Most people who seek this form of treatment actually lack the ability to use it. For example, in the first legalized state, Oregon, 1 in 500 directly accesses this (Quill 245). This avoids anyone from taking advantage or abusing the treatment. It also forces the patient to go through many steps to ensure that this is the option they truly want to choose. The steps that they must complete force the patients to go through many struggles that prove their passion for this treatment. Not only should physician assisted suicide not be considered immoral, physician assisted suicide should be a more well-known treatment in New York and across the country. If you spread the word you can help benefit and allow patients to stay fully informed in their options. Giving terminally ill patients the option to escape their pain, have control of their death, and die peacefully is a possibility with the legalization of physician assisted suicide. With this control, a patient can choose the time, place, and have a say in how they will die. They have the option of taking a lethal number of pills or mixing a drug into their drink that will first put them into a coma and then allow them a peaceful passing. Patients usually choose to die in their homes surrounded by family, but all in all it is their choice. Giving a person the freedom to choose how and when they die, helps avoid what-ifs and unanswered questions. You may be asking yourself how this affects you even if you do not know someone who is terminally ill. Even though most people struggle in agreeing with this treatment, in a recent, anonymous study, 85% of people said that physician-assisted suicide be morally Dubas 3 acceptable under some (Fenn 236). People do not want others to suffer due to their lack of options. A person that already is going through so many struggle due to being diagnosed with a terminal illness and the pain that comes along with it, should be limited to any other struggles they face. Most organizations spread word of their beliefs by using real stories. A perfect example of this is a woman from California named Brittany Maynard who was diagnosed with brain cancer. When she was diagnosed with this disease, they told her about her future and the options that she had. Maynard researched her options online and discovered physician assisted suicide. She knew that she did not want to live her last few days in pain and unsure of what day was going to be her last. The problem Maynard ran into was that California did not yet pass a law legalizing this treatment. So, she was forced to pick up her and her family and move to Oregon. Her story began to spread, sparking her popularity. She later became the face of the organization, Compassion and Choices (Schabner). struggle to have control of her end of life decisions and lack of freedom to do what she wanted, appeals to people and plays on their emotions. A woman who was already being put through so much pain should not have to go through so much to have her wishes respected. All in all, physician assisted suicide should be legalized in New York, sparking a chain reaction across America. You may be thinking to yourself, what can I do to help? Well, you have the ability to spread the word of what physician assisted suicide is and how beneficial it is for terminally ill patients. A way that New York University is trying to spread the word is by holding a march on May 14, through New York City. The students will be holding signs and chanting to legalize physician assisted suicide. This will draw more attention to this form of treatment, causing the state officials to take action. Not only will they be holding signs, the Dubas 4 students will also have petitions handy that people can sign and hand out cards with the link of the petition. These actions will not only further push the legalization of physician assisted suicide in New York, but also across the country. Dubas 5 Works Cited Fenn, Darien S., and Linda Ganzini. Attitudes of Oregon psychologists toward physician assisted suicide and the Oregon Death With Dignity  Professional Psychology: Research and Practice 30.3 (1999): 235-44. Web. to access and use death with dignity Death with Dignity. Death With Dignity, n.d. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. New  Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <https://www.deathwithdignity.org/states/new-york/>. Quill, Timothy E., Anthony L. Back, and Susan D. Block. Responding to Patients Requesting Physician-Assisted  Jama 315.3 (2016): 245. Web. Schabner, Dean. Brittany Maynard, Advocate for Death With Dignity, Ends Her  ABC News. ABC News Network, n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. <http://abcnews.go.com/Health/brittany-maynard-advocate-death-dignity-ends- life/story?id=26644431>.