Pawelec 1 Jakub Pawelec Tisdale ENC 1101.017 8 Apr 2017 Smartphones: Tools to Increase Productivity During the last 10 years smartphones have become important tools in the personal lives of people and in the workplace. Smartphones offer many advanced features ranging from the ability to access the Internet anywhere to the ability to display airplane tickets. They also offer the ability to access employee directories and other business tools like email from any location. Although smartphones have many useful features some argue that they are more of a distraction than a help since they allow easy access to social networking sites. Productivity is defined in the Merriam-Webster dictionary as rate at which goods are produced or work is Smartphones have increased productivity due to easier access of information, improved work/life balance, and increased efficiency at work and in personal life. One of the most useful benefits that smartphones have provided is easier access of information from any location with cellular service. An IBM-Columbia University study of IBM employees who used smartphones at work found that smartphones did increase the productivity of the employees who used them. The study also mentioned that the ability for employees to access the IBM information systems from their smartphones was one of the main reasons why smartphones improved employee performance. Bertschek and study of German businesses also found a direct correlation between mobile internet use (i.e. smartphones) for business purposes and the labor productivity of those businesses. Although smartphones help Pawelec 2 provide easier access to useful information, they have also been found to have a negative effect on academic performance. A study of undergraduate students at a public university found that students who used smartphones frequently had a lower grade point average et al., 646). However, the study also mentions that the negative effect smartphones have on academic performance can be mitigated by banning smartphones during class instructional time. Another benefit that smartphones have provided to aid productivity is that they have been shown to help to optimize work/life balance. A study conducted by Yun, Kettinger, and Lee found that smartphones increased productivity and that the increased productivity reduced work overload on employees. The study further found that work smartphones, which offered more flexibility in working hours, actually increased work-to-life conflict. However, smartphones that were configured for increasing the quality of work rather than increasing flexibility decreased work-to-life conflict. A different study by Kalkbrenner and McCampbell found that smartphones were used equally for work and personal use. Regular cell phones on the other hand were found to be generally used for personal purposes only and not for work. This study also found that smartphones increased the productivity of their users both in their personal lives and in the workplace, therefore showing a healthy work/life balance. Smartphones have also been shown to increase the efficiency of people both in the workplace and in their personal lives. The aforementioned IBM-Columbia study stated that IBM employees were able to contact other employees easier with their smartphones which in turn made completing tasks easier. In addition, study also mentions that smartphones will improve operational efficiency which in this case can be defined as completing job tasks faster which in turn increases productivity. Although smartphones can increase efficiency they have also been shown to cause distractions. In study of clinicians, it was found that some Pawelec 3 surgeons used their smartphones during procedures. Despite this, over 90% of clinicians were expected to use their smartphones at work in 2013. Some hospitals have implemented smartphone policies so that clinicians can only use their smartphones at certain times so as to maximize the benefits smartphones provide during patient care while minimizing dangerous distractions. Smartphones have provided the ability to access information easier. They have enhanced work/life balance and increased efficiency at work and in personal life. In conclusion, smartphones have increased the productivity of their users. Smartphone sales and use especially in the workplace have been steadily increasing. With more and more employees using them, smartphones have become one of the most important tools in the 21 st century. Pawelec 4 Works Cited Ahmad, Nabeel, and Orton, Peter. Smartphones Make IBM Smarter, But Not As  T+D 64.1 (2010): 46-50. Education Source. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. Bertschek, Irene, and Niebel, Thomas. Mobile And More Productive? Firm-Level Evidence On The Productivity Effects Of Mobile Internet  Telecommunications Policy 40.(2016): 888-898. ScienceDirect. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. et al. Modelling Smartphone Addiction: The Role Of Smartphone Usage, Self-Regulation, General Self-Efficacy And Cyberloafing In University  Computers In Human Behavior 63.1 (2016): 639-649. Education Source. Web. 28 Jan. 2017 Kalkbrenner, Joseph, and McCampbell, Atefeh. The Advent Of Smartphones: A Study On The Effect Of Handheld Electronics On Personal And Professional  Journal Of Applied Global Research 4.8 (2011): 1. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. McBride, Deborah L. Distraction Of Clinicians By Smartphones In Hospitals: A Concept  Journal Of Advanced Nursing 71.9 (2015): 2020-2030. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Yun, Haejung, Kettinger, William J., and Lee, Choong C. A New Open Door: The Impact On Work-To-Life Conflict, Stress, And  International Journal Of Electronic Commerce 16.4 (2012): 121-152. Business Source Premier. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.