Cavil 1 Nicholas Cavil Instructor Townsend ENC 1102 14 April 2017 The Unpopular Opinion on Vaccinations Throughout your years of education, have you ever believed in something just because a person of authority told you to? Even if you did not understand it, nor agree with it? If that answer is yes, then you can easily grasp the narrative of what this paper shall expand upon. Vaccinations are intended to biologically prepare the immune system to a particular disease (Mandal). To understand its complexity within the human body would require several years of immense anatomical study. It is with this complexity that lends vaccinations its obscurity and therefore a majority of people cannot truly debate the topic because of its intricacy. The concept of vaccinations being harmful is ergo quite difficult to believe in because it is tough to go against the opinions of those in authority. Over the course of the past decade, however, the anti- vaccination movement has been gaining ground in both research and membership. If the cause is true in the slightest then the anti-vaccination movement will have saved thousands of future children from the grasp of autism and other debilitating defects. It is up to us, the students of the University of South Florida, to defend these children from any potential threat and thus we must rebuke mandatory vaccinations as vaccines are both dangerous and insecure. According to the article titled, Why Do People Think the MMR Vaccine Causes the trend in anti- vaccine sentiment arises from a study conducted by gastroenterologist Dr. Andrew Wakefield whose findings uncovered a possible link between the Cavil 2 measles virus in the gut and autism (Rudy). Despite his research being demoted as at the concern of the possibility of this link is still alive and growing to this day. It is a fact that autism in children has grown exponentially over the past few decades from 1 in 2000 to 1 in 150 (Doheny). The pro-vaccination side often overlooks that the evidence supporting their cause is also equally as circumstantial because, often hedge about saying whether their findings prove or disprove anything. because the scientific method proceeds by constantly modifying theories rather than accumulating  (Downs 2). Scientists, therefore, cannot prove that vaccinations either do or do not cause autism. They only make educated assumptions based on case studies that they conduct themselves. Scientists cannot ethically test whether or not vaccines directly cause autism because they could possibly give a child autism and that could be quite cruel (Downs 3). Nevertheless, scientists cannot definitively prove whether vaccines do or not cause autism. This irrefutable truth therefore allows for the anti-vaccination cause to have a proverbially foothold in their argument. It also rejects the current popular sentiment that vaccines do not cause autism or any ill effects. Upon reading the previous information a lot of readers are often shocked, incredulous, and taken-back by the severity of these claims and the possibility of them being true. I mean, every student attending the University of South Florida has been vaccinated so can there really be any truth behind these assertions? The answer to this self-imposed question is yes. In an article published by CBS, a young completely healthy child, Hannah Poling, was vaccinated for nine diseases in one visit (Attkisson). Her health declined rapidly over the year and the parents filed a claim for autism (Attkisson). The article notes, acknowledging injuries, the government said vaccines aggravated an unknown mitochondrial disorder Hannah had which  her autism, but  in (Attkisson). The court ruled in Cavil 3 favor and rewarded her family with 1.5 million in damages (Attkisson). This case reveals that vaccines could be a factor in the rise of autism. This poses the rhetorical question on how many cases shared the same traits but were swept under the rug because vaccines never lead to autism in children. The reason I quote this case so heavily is because this could have been your child, or the child of a fellow University of South Florida student and you should recognize and care about the safety of an innocent child. It is clear and evident that the anti-vaccination crowd has at least some validation to their argument. The Vaccine Resistance Movement (VRM) is one of the more structured organizations that lobby for, at the very least, the legalization of voluntary vaccinations. The VRM have faith that a Health Movement will eventually relegate the Vaccine Industry, and all similar aberrations of nature, to the dust-bin of (Lord). If you are feeling any sort of anti-vaccination sentiment as of now then you are not alone. In an article published by Vox, logistics analyzer, Peter Hotez, found that 2016 [in there were almost 45,000 children who refused vaccines about double the number of exemptions in (Belluz). As shown by these numbers you feel estranged by the inquisitive feelings you may be having. It is important that we, as the future generation, question the statements that are imposed upon us throughout our lives. It would be very detrimental to be ambivalent towards the realities we face as refusing to question the norm limits the change we could make. Refusing to question the authority before us can also lead to another Hannah Poling, or Evan McCarthy, a child from a famous celebrity who also suffered a similar fate If we continue to ignore these instances then there will be more children who suffer the same fate. A reoccurring theme throughout our generation is that alone we are powerless; however, we fail to realize our small contributions can affect the entire scheme of a movement and bring Cavil 4 us one step closer to a medical revolution. Do not be discouraged by individual effort, together we can make difference. Some differences include joining Florida Virtual School which has its enrollment 26 times in less than 15 Perhaps because of the growing fear of vaccinations? As a student of USF, we are planning an organized anti vaccination rally, April 31, 2017, in front of the MLK statue. A clear symbol of civil disobedience. If you are unable to attend we encourage you to write to our state representative, Kathy Castor. Please protect the children in whatever way you can. In conclusion, vaccinations can possibly lead to several children developing autism like symptoms and other ill-effects. The people have the power to overthrow the norm and reject the end-all-be-all statement put out by the government which has been proven, at least in the case of Hannah Poling, to be incorrect. Typically conspiracy theories are based on mere hear-say but, the anti-vaccination cause clearly has profound evidence that causes the reader to think about the possibility of harm. Do not rest on your laurels, reject the norm. It is up to us to question the authority like the rebelliously scholars who uncover the instances of authoritarian misconduct every day. This exaggeration is only to extenuate the serious misconduct I hope you begin to see. Write to your government, put your children through Florida Virtual, peacefully protest, or join the VRM. Be the generation to save the children from the grasp of autism. Cavil 5 Work Cited Attkisson, Sharyl. Family to Receive $1.5M+ in First-Ever Vaccine-Autism Court  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 10 Sept. 2010. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Belluz, Julia. I Was Skeptical That the Anti-vaccine Movement Was Gaining Traction. Not  Vox. Vox, 15 Feb. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Doheny, Kathleen. Autism: Cases on the Rise; Reason for Increase a  WebMD. WebMD, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Florida Virtual School: A Growing  Florida Virtual School Tampa Bay Times. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Frontline. Jenny McCarthy: Not An Anti-Vaccine Movement Pro-Safe  PBS. PBS, 23 Mar. 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Lisa Jo Rudy - Reviewed by a Board-certified Physician. Why Do People Think the MMR Vaccine Causes  Verywell. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Lord, Joel. Vaccine Resistance  Vaccine Resistance Movement RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Mandal, MD Dr Ananya. What Are  News-Medical.net. N.p., 26 Sept. 2013. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.