Radliff 1 Haley Radliff Professor Campbell Composition 2 18 April 2017 Sex Education in the U.S. Sex education in high schools across the country is a big issue. The curriculum taught varies based on the location of a person and the beliefs of those who live there. However, with pregnancy and STD rates on the rise amongst teens, changes in the way sex education is taught need to occur. What teens need is a comprehensive sex education program that not only teaches students how to have safe sex, but also the dangers that go along with having sex such as pregnancy and Students need to know how to protect themselves and that they have options when it comes to protection and prevention. To implement a program like this, the general public must be willing to sign petitions and protest to show that they believe there is a problem. Also people must be willing to go to their senators and house representatives voicing their concerns when it comes to sex education so that the proper individuals can propose bills to change the way sex education is taught in this country. It is important that students across the country have this type of program so that they can make conscious and educated decisions when it comes to having sex. Sex education programs vary around the country based on which state the school is in. According to the National Conference of State Legislatures states and the District of Columbia require public schools teach sex (State Policies on Sex Education). This means that 26 states in the United States do not require public schools to teach sex education. The issue with this is that students who are taught abstinence only programs or not taught Radliff 2 anything about sex do not know how to have safe sex. Therefore, when the time comes for these students to be sexually active, they have no idea how to protect themselves. One study found that abstinence only education was correlated positively with pregnancy and birth rates in the United States (K. Hall and D. Hall 2). This shows that abstinence only education is ineffective because students are not listening to the main message of the program and are still choosing to engage in sex. Therefore, these teens are submitting themselves to the risks that go along with having sex because they are not doing it in a safe way. Another study done at Syracuse University showed that college freshmen knew far less about sex compared to the seniors, showing that the students learned more about sex while in college than in high school (Franklin and Dotger 8). With students not learning about sex education early on, they are forced to learn by experience which does not prepare students for the dangers that come with being sexually active. When students are not taught a comprehensive sex education program they are often put at risk for and pregnancy. This is because these students are choosing to have sex without knowing how to protect themselves. A major issue that comes with having unprotected sex is the risk of contracting an STD. One article stated that STD rates are at an all-time high with than 1.5 million cases of reported in 2015 (Sun). This is significant because with more teens choosing to have sex and not knowing how to protect themselves, they are subjecting themselves to the risk of contracting an STD like chlamydia. Some of these can stay with a person for as long as they live and can potentially be fatal if not treated properly. HIV is a major concern for those who are sexually active because if left untreated it can lead to the person contracting AIDS, which is fatal. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention without treatment those who progress to have AIDS have a life expectancy of three years following diagnosis (HIV/AIDS). Although in recent years HIV/AIDS has become a more Radliff 3 manageable disease with new treatments and drug trials being put out on the market, there still is no cure. Another danger that teens put themselves at risk for when they have sex is pregnancy. Students need to know how to protect themselves so that when they do have sex doing it in a safe way so that they do not have to deal with an unwanted pregnancy. According to the CDC 2014, a total of 249,078 babies were born to women aged 15-19 (Reproductive Health: Teen Pregnancy). With numbers like this, teen moms are faced with tough decisions as to what they want to do with the child. If they decide to keep the baby and raise it, they are often forced to drop out of school to take care of the baby. According to the National Conference of State Legislatures 40% of teen mothers finish high (Postcard: Teen Pregnancy). If these teens decide they do not want to keep the child the only other options are adoption and abortion which can take a toll on them emotionally. The solution to this complex issue of sex education in the public school system is to advocate for a comprehensive sex education program for high school students. In a comprehensive sex education program, students will be taught how to practice safe sex by the means of various types of contraceptives. Students will also learn what can happen when they choose not to practice safe sex and the consequences such as contracting an STD or an unwanted pregnancy. With a program like this, students are able to make educated decisions as to how they have sex, or if they even want to. With the way the media and pop culture glorify sex, teens often feel pressured into having sex. A comprehensive sex education program shows teens that sex is not as glamorous as it may seem and that there are serious implications that go along with being sexually active. In order to implement a program like this, the general public must be willing to go out and advocate for the students. Parents need to approach their schoolboards on a local level and tell the proper officials that there is a problem with the way sex education is being taught Radliff 4 presently. People can also go out and sign petitions saying that they believe happening right now is not right. To change things on a national level, approach your senators and house representatives. Make these officials aware that this is an issue that you care about. These government officials have the ability to propose bills that can eventually become law. Organizations like Advocates for Youth and Planned Parenthood are also great resources because they help spread the message that sex education is something that should be embraced. One article mentioned that these two organizations teamed and made a statement that abstinence only education does not work because it ignores rights to be informed on fundamental parts of health (Kupper). People should also get involved with these organizations because they can advocate on the behalf of parents and get the message spread in a public way. When examining the way sex education is taught in the United States today, it is clear there is a problem. Less than half of states in the country require public schools to teach sex education programs. Teenagers who are taught abstinence or not taught sex education at all are at risk because they do not have the necessary information to protect themselves when they decide to have sex. These teens must rely on their parents or peers to teach them what they do not know. This is why high school students need a comprehensive sex education program to give them the ability to make smart decisions when it comes to having sex. Radliff 5 Works Cited Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Reproductive Health: Teen Pregnancy. Accessed 18 April 2017. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. HIV/AIDS. Web. Accessed 18 April 2017. Franklin, Ruth M., and Sharon Dotger. Sex Education Knowledge Differences Between Freshmen And Senior College  College Student Journal vol. 45, no. 1, 2011, pp. 199-213. ERIC. Accessed 18 April 2017. Stanger-Hall K, Hall D. Abstinence-Only Education and Teen Pregnancy Rates: Why We Need Comprehensive Sex Education in the U.S. Plos ONE. October 2011;6(10):1-11. Academic Search Premier. Accessed 18 April 2017. Kupper, Crystal. the Focus on the Family, http://www.focusonthefamily.com/socialissues/citizen-magazine/changing-the- conversation. Accessed 18 April 2017. National Conference of State Legislatures. Postcard: Teen Pregnancy Affects Graduation Rates. Web. Accessed 18 April 2017. National Conference of State Legislatures. State Policies on Sex Education in Schools. Web. Accessed 18 April 2017. Sun, Lena H. STD rates hit record high in U.S. as screening clinics  Washington Post 20 Oct. 2016. Business Insights: Essentials. Web. Accessed 18 April 2017.