Shanise Emanuel ENC 1102 De Carion 3/19/17 The Christian Coalition For decades, the concept of religion has been narrowed down into different divisions. A popular sect of religion is Christianity, and it has grown immensely to the point where there are organizations that support the religion. The Christian Coalition is a political organization that is pro family and shares the Christian faith amongst the community. They protest anti-Christian beliefs and try to convert people to Christianity. The advertisements and/or images used for this organization are informing the public of why they should become a part of the organization. Each image shows the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. The Christian Coalition uses the rhetorical appeals to grasp the attention of the public, so that people will be encouraged to join their organization. Initially, the advertisements made by the Christian Coalition had to be ethical, so that the Christian community appears reliable. The first advertisement is on the side of a bus with people on the bus. It is stating definitely is a God. So join the Christian party and enjoy Some people would find that this source is credible because there is a mention of God; or those who believe in God would find this to be credible. However, the advertisement has the organizations logo on it in small print, and a number to text to join the Christian party. These factors all go towards ethos for this organization. The second advertisement is the Christian logo and this portrays the appeal of ethos by providing an image that justifies the relevance of the organization. The logo for the Christian Coalition has been around since 1989, so the audience is aware that the Christian Coalition has had a lot of experience in their field of work. The Christian Coalition may be found to be credible because they take an active part in the Emanuel 2 government. actively lobby Congress and the White House on numerous issues and hold grassroots training seminars and events all around the (Combs). The fact that they actively deal with the government shows that their work is serious; therefore credible to the public. Another way to get the attention is to use an emotional connection as a way that the audience can relate to the organization. Pathos is demonstrated to the audience in the first advertisement by making the presumption that everyone feels the need to enjoy life. Also, the advertisement is using passive aggressive wording to convince the audience that they will have a better life if they join the Christian party. In their mission statement, the Christian Coalition the pro-family point of (Combs). This statement also makes an emotional connection to families, because they would want to know that their beliefs are also being portrayed by this organization. The second image has the colors red, white, and blue; the same as the American flag. The concept of the American Dream is present, which most Americans would like to achieve at some point in life. This concept along with the first advertisements usage of better causes the audience to empathize with the Christian Coalition. Along with credibility and emotion, logic is used for both advertisements as well, but in different ways. The first advertisement, as was pointed out earlier, is on the side of a bus. This would use logos because if the Christian Coalition wanted more people to see who they were, they would put the advertisement in a place with many people. In a city, people take the bus almost every day therefore they would see this advertisement in repetition and possibly be persuaded to join the Christian party. The second advertisement, which is the logo for the Christian Coalition, had to be formatted in a way so that the organization could be taken Emanuel 3 seriously. This logo was made for an organization that represents Christianity for the whole of America. It was only right that the logo for this organization have the colors of the American flag. So that people can understand that the Christian Coalition also wanted to exemplify their country of the United States of America. Furthermore, the usage of time for the advertisements is unique. The second advertisement, being the logo, was created when the organization was founded in 1989. The organization most likely decided to create their format in a way that their audience could comprehend throughout the years. The advertisement does not use just words; an image of a star is added to grasp the attention. The first advertisement also uses a modern way to send a message to the audience. Instead of just printing out an advertisement, the Christian Coalition decided to use a technique that was modern and put the advertisement on the bus. The fact that the Christian Coalition thought of putting their advertisement on a side of a bus, shows that they were thinking about the audience of this era. In this time period, advertisements are made to catch the eye of the audience; so, most companies and organizations make their advertisements big and bold. The Christian Coalition used this tactic to let the audience know that they are a legitimate organization. Also in this day and age, people are always using their cell phones. In the same advertisement, there is a number there so that people can join immediately if they text the number. Again, this shows that the Christian Coalition thought of using modern techniques to grasp the audience. Overall, the Christian Coalition utilized the rhetorical appeals to spread their message to their intended audience. This organization believes in representing families, informing the public, and maintaining the religion of Christianity as a whole. The rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos were utilized through advertisements to persuade and inform he Emanuel 4 audience as to why they should become a part of the organization. The methods of advertisement will continue to get the attention and hopefully attain more members for the Christian Coalition. Word Count 1034 Emanuel 5 Emanuel 6 Works Cited Combs, Roberta. Welcome to the Christian Coalition. 2017. www.cc.org Malec, J. Michael. 2009. New Orleans. www.patheos.com/blogs/friendlyatheist/2009/02/27/christian-group-responds-to-atheist- bus-ad-and-they-want-money/. Accessed 17 March 2017. Robertson, Pat. Christian Coalition Logo. 1989. www.au.org/resources/religious-right/christian- coalition-of-america. Accessed 17 March 2017.