Wilcox 1 Mitchell Wilcox Erika Staiger ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Impacts of CO2 Emissions and How to Reduce Them The growing industrial world has caused many effects on the environment and one of the largest issues is the amount of carbon dioxide emissions. There are specific laws to govern and monitor these emissions in many different categories but it is still not enough, because these emissions are affecting the climate in a negative way. There are a multitude of areas where the community and USF students and faculty could contribute to reducing their carbon footprint, for example using public transportation or carpooling, walking and biking, and also the use of hybrid and electric vehicles. Also there are other ways to support the reduction of CO2 on a much larger scale, for example, supporting large corporations that are this route of reducing CO2 emissions would require less activism as apposed to increased walking and biking. More restrictions are being added to reduce the impacts of CO2 emissions by the Federal Government. Also, in a study done by the University of Central Florida, there needs to be a large impact in the population to reduce the United States carbon footprint as a whole (Ercan et al. 1260). Increased efforts to support this issue can start by educating the public on how easy it is to contribute. USF students should walk and bike more frequently, use public transportation provided by USF, and use hybrid and electric vehicles to increase reduction of CO2 emissions to positively affect the environment. Increased studies are being conducted to shed light on the different factors of rising CO2 levels that are affecting countries around the world. CO2 emissions are a growing problem and Wilcox 2 increased efforts are needed to make a change. According to Yue-Jun Zhang of Hunan University, there is a direct relationship corruption and CO2 (Zhang et al.). It is also noted that these emissions greatly affect the climate and continue to increase in levels across the world in regards to warming tempuratures. As of 2013 a new policy has put in effect by the United States Federal Government (Cullenward et al. 303). This new policy is named the Climate Protection Act of 2013 and it is in place to govern energy and In basic terms is the amount paid to the government from corporations for the emissions that are put into the air. In succession, USF students could possibly support companies and corporations through their purchasing power and the investments they make. The supporting of these individual corporations and their standpoint on environmental sustainability is in a way voicing their opinion. However, this is a very broad segment of activism, and these are indirect actions that do not necessarily guarantee movement towards reducing CO2 emissions. In turn there are more accessible way to positively contribute to reducing emissions. With new technology being built every day, one way to actively support the reduction of CO2 emissions of the use of hybrid and electric vehicles. Hybrid vehicles are a combination of a traditional gas combustion engine and electric battery power and electric battery power. This emits very little CO2 compared to a complete gas engine. Whereas an entirely electric engine emits no carbon dioxide. In a study done by Mili-Ann Tamayao of Carnegie Mellon University, the Chevy Volt and Toyota Prius hybrid are two cars that are most successful in terms of efficiency and emissions per mile (Tamayao et al. 8844). Obtaining a hybrid or electric vehicle might not be an investment many USF students can pursue but hybrid and Wilcox 3 electric cars are the vehicles that can really make a difference and therefore that is why there needs to be a great number of these vehicles on the road in the future. There are many ways USF students can support the immediate reduction of CO2 emissions. For example, walking or biking not is not only good exercise but there are no amounts of carbon dioxide being emitted into the air. Imagine the difference if just USF students truly made an effort to reduce their amount of driving per week. According to Ralph Buehler, affiliated with the Urban Affairs and Planning Program, walking or biking is important mechanism for reducing automobile (Buehler et al. 1081). It is also noted in this study that in four Americans uses a car and makes at least seven weekly This statistic is a direct correlation to the growing CO2 emission problem. USF offers a sharable bike program that allows students to rent bikes for a period of time each day and when a student is done, they lock it up in a bike rack somewhere on campus and it is ready for the next student to use. Also, USF offers public transportation all around campus and even makes trips to off campus apartments. This public transportation offered by USF called the and is linked to an application you can download on your smartphone, where you can see exactly when the next bus is when it will be near you. These forms of getting from place to place is immediate way to reduce the amount of CO2 in the air by not adding any more. Due to the rapid increase of CO2 emissions in the air and the many changes to the environment from them, efforts must be done to slow this detrimental process. Any range of contribution will help this cause whether its walking an extra mile or two, or on a larger scale investing in environmentally friendly vehicle. The many ways we can get closer to attaining a healthier and cleaner environment can all start here on campus. USF students should walk Wilcox 4 and bike more frequently, use public transportation provided by USF, and use hybrid and electric vehicles to increase reduction of CO2 emissions to positively affect the environment Wilcox 5 Works Cited Buehler, Ralph1, ralphbu@vt.edu and Andrea1, ahamre@vt.edu Hamre. The Multimodal Majority? Driving, Walking, Cycling, and Public Transportation Use among American  Transportation, vol. 42, no. 6, Nov. 2015, pp. 1081-1101. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s11116-014-9556-z. Cullenward, Danny, et al. Dynamically Estimating the Distributional Impacts of U.S. Climate Policy with NEMS: A Case Study of the Climate Protection Act of  Energy Economics, vol. 55, 01 Mar. 2016, pp. 303-318. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.eneco.2016.02.021. Ercan, Tolga, et al. Investigating Carbon Footprint Reduction Potential of Public Transportation in United States: A System Dynamics  Journal of Cleaner Production, vol. 133, 01 Oct. 2016, pp. 1260-1276. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.06.051. Tamayao, Mili-Ann M., et al. Regional Variability and Uncertainty of Electric Vehicle Life Cycle CO2 Emissions across the United  Environmental Science & Technology, vol. 49, no. 14, 21 July 2015, pp. 8844-8855. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1021/acs.est.5b00815. Wells, Mark L., et al. Harmful Algal Blooms and Climate Change: Learning from the past and Present to Forecast the  Harmful Algae, vol. 49, 01 Nov. 2015, pp. 68-93. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.hal.2015.07.009.