Major 1 Jesse Major Sabah Firoz Uddin, PhD ENC1101 4/7/17 Capital punishment is a form of consequence for committing heinous crimes such as mass murder and capital sexual battery. The discussion on the deterrence of crime due to capital punishment has changed from when it first began. It started off with researchers saying that crime rates were lower when states offered the death penalty. Over time, researchers began to sway to the other side of the death penalty not lowering crime. The four sources that were chosen shows how the researchers looked at crime rates and capital punishment through various different methods and how they came to a conclusion. While conducting their research through various methods, they arrive at a similar conclusion. They all concluded that capital punishment does not have a clear deterrence effect on the crime rate. This means that there is a lack of change in perspective over time. To start, the sources come to the conclusion of capital punishment not deterring crime is through providing data of before and after capital punishment is allowed. Kerwin Charles and Steven Durlauf emphasizes that they do not believe approaches have provided any causal evidence on the deterrence (Charles and Durlauf 46). They state in the source that these methods cannot be used to show that crime rate is deterred when capital punishment is offered as some states do not carry out the execution or they are only measured around the time of the executions. In the source Punishment and Deterrence: Understanding Disparate Durlauf and Navarro looked at the empirical data. By looking at the data, they saw that Major 2 crime rate was mostly dependent on the factor of money which was if the crime was worth committing. Crime rate only rose due to money problems and sunk when the economy was doing better. Capital punishment was still offered at these times but was not a big deterrent compared to people not wanting to go to jail as it would risk the money they had. Next, the sources come to this conclusion is by showing the methods used to prove that capital punishment lowers crime rates do not work. The methods themselves have flaws and do not account for every factor. In in the Use of Time Series Methods to Study Deterrence and Capital Charles and Durlauf point out the flaws such as not using a longer period of time and only using times around executions rather than normal times. distinct feature of this approach is that it is essentially means that one of the time series method used in showing crime deterrence with capital punishment is just a theory (Charles and Durlauf 47). If a method is just a theory that means that it cannot be proven like the String Theory in physics. In Do Executions Lower Homicide Rates: The Views of Leading Criminologists by Michael Radelet and Traci Lacock, they also look at crime rates near and after executions. If these studies had a wider time period, they could then establish that crime rate is deterred by capital punishment being offered. By just sticking to around the execution, they limit the study and fail to provide evidence that capital punishment deters crime. deterrent effect was limited to electrocutions and did not extend to executions by other (Radelet and Lacock 519). This means that capital punishment did deter crime but only for certain execution methods. If a state did not offer that execution method, crime rate was not affected. In Deterrent Effect of Capital Punishment: Evidence from a Dezhbakhsh and Shepherd the murder rate for each state immediately before and after it suspended or reinstated the death and Shepherd 512). Major 3 While they only look at the murder rate which is narrower than the crime rate, they came to the conclusion that other factors played a part in deterring crime not capital punishment. factors that affect example, law enforcement, judicial, demographic, and economic (512). Dezhbackhsh and Shepherd looked at those variables and was able to determine that those variables played a bigger role in crime deterrence than capital punishment. unemployment rate is positive and highly significant in all (519). The study shows that having a job is a better deterrent for crime as people do not want a criminal record and be unable to provide for themselves and/or their families. People in higher societal standing were less likely to commit crimes compared to people in lower social positions. These studies that try to say capital punishment deters crime only uses some variables however they should all of the variables and not omit any. The sources used in the essay showed that crime deterrence and capital punishment did not go hand in hand with each other. The researchers believed that capital punishment did not have either a clear deterrence effect to crime rate or it was other factors that affected crime rate. Capital punishment does not offer the same deterrence as it used to. As society changes, it changes what deters people from crime. Governments are not as interested in executing citizens but rather reforming them. Major 4 Works Cited Charles, Kerwin Kofi, and Steven N. Durlauf. Pitfalls in the Use of Time Series Methods to Study Deterrence and Capital  Journal of Quantitative Criminology 29.1 (2012): 45-66. Web. Dezhbakhsh, Hashem, and Joanna Shepherd. The Deterrent Effect of Capital Punishment: Evidence from a  SSRN Electronic Journal (2006): 512-535. Web. Durlauf, Steven N., Chao Fu, and Salvador Navarro. Capital Punishment and Deterrence: Understanding Disparate  Journal of Quantitative Criminology 29.1 (2012): 103-21. Web. RADELET, MICHAEL L., and TRACI L. LACOCK. DEVELOPMENTS: DO EXECUTIONS LOWER HOMICIDE RATES?: THE VIEWS OF LEADING The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology (1973-), vol. 99, no. 2, 2009, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/20685045.