A GREENER ENVIRONEMNT VIA HYDROGEN FUEL CELLS 1 A Greener Environment Via Hydrogen Fuel Cells Kaung Su Khin Zaw University of South Florida A GREENER ENVIRONEMNT VIA HYDROGEN FUEL CELLS 2 A Greener Environment Via Hydrogen Fuel Cells Due to the use of fossil fuels for everyday energy sources, especially electricity and transportation, a considerable amount of carbon dioxide which causes the global warming detrimentally, has been produced from burning of fossil fuels which are made up of carbon and hydrogen compounds. While burning, hydrogen and carbon compounds in fossil fuels turn into carbon dioxide. According to statics and results from researches, 87 percent of human made carbon dioxide emission was produced from burning of fossil fuels such as natural gas, coals, and oils for transportation. (Le Quere et.al, 2012). In order to reduce carbon dioxide emission due to fossil fuels, an alternative renewable technology called hydrogen fuel cell has been researched and introduced for bringing a greener environment in the future. Although safe handling and expensive production of hydrogen fuel cells hinder the use of hydrogen fuel cells in vehicles, this alternative energy resource provides with benefits such as renewability, zero emission of carbon dioxide, and non-toxicity to not only humans and animals but also to the environment. (Engebretson, 2009). Even though vehicles that run on hydrogen fuel cells hinder the use of hydrogen have been introduced in some parts of the United States, Europe and Asia, the popularity of these vehicles is still low. Most governments and motor companies such as Toyota and BMW have invested in research of hydrogen fuel cell technology. However, people need to know about hydrogen fuel cells and its benefits. Therefore, Fuel Cell & Hydrogen Energy Association (FCHEA) organization promotes and educates the public about hydrogen fuel cell products, especially vehicles in conferences and motor events around the world. Joining a membership to FCHEA is a great way to support and get involved to promote hydrogen fuel cells for a greener environment in the future. A GREENER ENVIRONEMNT VIA HYDROGEN FUEL CELLS 3 According to Fuel Cell & Hydrogen Energy Association (FCHEA), a hydrogen fuel cell is the best option among alternative renewable energy resources because it does not give off any harmful gas to the environment. In a hydrogen fuel cell, the combustion of hydrogen gas produces heat energy which makes engines of vehicles work. The efficiency of hydrogen fuel cell vehicles equals to that of fossil fuel vehicles as hydrogen fuel cell research states that a fuel cell provides a combination of high because of its output energy as effective as that of fossil fuels whereas other renewable energy resources supply only 10 percent of daily energy usage. Since hydrogen fuel cells simply produce water as a by-product, fuel cells are regarded as an operation that most other energy conversion devices (Sharaf, and Orham, 2017). In addition, hydrogen used in fuel cells can be produced by any time as hydrogen is one of the most abundant gases in the nature. One of most common methods is splitting of water in electrolysis process. Thus, unlike fossil fuels, people do not need to worry about running out of fuels for transportation and electricity in the future. In comparison of renewability of hydrogen fuel cells, that of fossil fuels is much lower as fossil fuels have started running out. Therefore, hydrogen fuel cells can become the predominant source of energy due to its eco-friendly advantages that could benefit the society. In the past, most people were afraid to use hydrogen fuel cell vehicles according to surveys conducts by U.S energy department because they thought that hydrogen is highly flammable and explosive(Dunwoody,2009). However, in June 2009, more than 300 fuel cell passenger vehicles and transit buses, and 26 hydrogen fuel stations were placed into California communities. From surveys and feedback, people used these vehicles without noticing and experienced that filling hydrogen in hydrogen station was easy to handle and safe as they followed the procedures. (Dunwoody, 2009). Many car companies are interested in mass A GREENER ENVIRONEMNT VIA HYDROGEN FUEL CELLS 4 production of hydrogen fuel cell vehicles (fchea.org). Therefore, researchers and scientists have been conducted several experiments to reduce the cost of these vehicles for high demand from the public. On the other hand, it can also be argued that fossil fuels are still needed to provide energy for production of hydrogen gas because in the process of electrolysis, thermal energy (heat) is used to split water molecules into hydrogen so hydrogen fuel cells are not eco-friendly to the environment. Since the aspects of fossil fuels include in the production of hydrogen in hydrogen fuel cells, hydrogen fuel cells depend on fossil fuels indirectly. However, recently innovative technology and research prove that hydrogen can be produced using energy provided from alternative energy resources such as solar and wind power. Thus, hydrogen fuel cells are not dependent on fossil fuel. To support this alternative, in Saudi Arabia, the percentage of electricity from wind energy and solar energy in different places was analyzed, concluding that hydrogen production is relatively more ecofriendly with wind energy and solar energy. The price of hydrogen gas if mass produced, would be lower than that of fossil fuels (Al-Sharafi et al. 2017). Without doubt, hydrogen fuel cells can bring the greener environment with zero emission of carbon dioxide in the future. Hydrogen fuel cells can change the world by reducing global warming. The impacts of global warming are melting of polar ice caps, flooding, storms and climate changes around the world. Global warming occurs mainly due to burning of fossil fuels. Fossil fuels play an important role in providing energy for transportation in our daily lives and produce tons of carbon dioxide in the environment. In order to reduce the emission of carbon dioxide from burning fossil fuels, people have to stop the use of fossil fuels and support hydrogen fuel cell usage for a better and greener environment in the future. Fuel Cell & Hydrogen Energy A GREENER ENVIRONEMNT VIA HYDROGEN FUEL CELLS 5 Association accepts people to be members in its organization in order to increase the popularity of hydrogen fuel cells. By joining its association for free, you can receive information about hydrogen fuel cells and events around the world through email and can discuss about it with different members, including professionals. You can donate money by buying postcards in which pictures of hydrogen fuel cells and its benefits are printed. You can participate in this organization by volunteering when events and conferences about hydrogen fuel cells are held in your city. To conclude, people need to take care of the environment for the future generation by stopping the use of fossil fuels because global warming impacts detrimentally on different area of the world. In order to replace fossil fuels, we need to change hydrogen fuel cells as energy sources for a better future Therefore, we need to know more information about them, their benefits and experiments. It is a good start to join Fuel Cell & Energy Association (FCHEA) to support the use of hydrogen fuel cells for the future. By joining FCHEA as a membership and donating money, you can contribute your effort to save the environment by supporting the organization which have conducted experiments and researches to improve the benefits of hydrogen fuel cells. A GREENER ENVIRONEMNT VIA HYDROGEN FUEL CELLS 6 References Al-Sharafi, Abdullah. Sahin, Ahmel Z. Ayar, Tahir. Yilbas, Bekirs.(2016) analysis and optimization of solar and wind energy systems for power generation and hydrogen production in Saudi Renewable and Sustainable Energy Review. Elsevier. vol.26, pp.33-49. Sharaf, Omar Z. Orham, Mehmet F. (2014) overview of fuel cell technology: Fundamentals and Renewable and Sustainable Energy Review. Elsevier, vol. 32, pp.810- 853. Hardman, Scott. Shiu, Eric. Steinberger-Wilcken, Robert. Turrentine, Thomas. (2017) to the Adoption of Fuel Cell Vehicles: A Qualitative Investigation into Early Adopters Transportation Research Part A. Elsevier. vol.95, pp.166. Engebretson, Joan. (2009). Fuel Cell Future: Hydrogen-based Powertrains offer big benefits, bigger Automotive Repair News, Vol.48,7, pp.28-31. Dunwoody, Catherine. (2009). to a commercial fuel cell vehicle market in Fuel Cell Bulletin, 11, pp 12-14. Fuel Cell & Hydrogen Energy Association, (2017), Retrieved from http://www.fchea.org Le Quere, C., A.K. Jain, M.R. Raupach, J. Schwinger, S. Stich, B. D. Stocker, N. Viovy, S. Zaehle, C.Huntingford, P. Friedlingstein, R. J. Andres, T. Boden, C. Jourdain, T. Conway, R.A. Houghton, J. I. House, G. Marland, G.P. Peters, G.Van Der Werf, A. A GREENER ENVIRONEMNT VIA HYDROGEN FUEL CELLS 7 Ahlstrom, R.M. Andrew, L.Boop, J.G. Canadell, E .Kato, P. Ciais, S.C. Doney, C. Enright, N. Zeng, R.F Keeling, K. Klein Goldewijk, S. Levis, P. Levy, M. Lomas, and B. Poulter.(2012) Global Carbon Budget Earth System Science Data Discussions 5, no.1, pp. 165-185.