Jennifer Moreno Casey Clague ENC 1102.076 18 April 2017 A Healthy Mind Helps Make a Healthy Body A pregnant woman rushing to the hospital to give birth. An uncle enjoying the festivities at his graduation party. A depressed teenager who has just attempted suicide. Aside from being human, all three of these people share common characteristics and needs. Though some may not consider it to be important, one of the most basic needs of any human being that a part of the elite rich society of our world is medical insurance. Though some may argue that medical insurance should only be provided for physical health issues, medical insurance should be readily available for mental and physical health problems considering that ACA defined coverage of mental health and substance use treatment as one of the ten essential health (Health Policy Brief). To help promote the support of mental health care, we must stand against the repeal of the ACA by calling representatives, signing petitions, and communicating through social media. For those who do not know, mental parity is a set of laws and regulations stating that health insures plans must offer the same amount of coverage for mental health when compared to the amount of coverage for physical health. According to the Health Policy Brief on HealthAffairs.org, the first of these laws came out in 1996, and it was known as the Mental Health Parity Act (MHPA). This act prohibited health insurance plans that already included mental health from charging higher annual or lifetime dollar amounts for their coverage. It is important to note that this act did not require plans to include mental health care, it merely placed limits on the amount paid for mental health care already included. To combat the issues posed by the MHPA, Congress passed the Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act (MHPAEA) in 2008, and MHPAEA prohibited differences in treatment limits, cost sharing, and in- and out-of-network (Health Policy Brief). These two acts have made a world of a difference in the world of mental health care. Before these acts were passed, mental health care was only offered by a few plans, and this care came at a huge cost to workers. These acts have changed that situation; this has helped their customers economically and in terms of health. According to D article Mission unfulfilled: potholes on the road to mental health parity, for behavioral health care services have been reduced at a faster pace than has been the case for general medical care Though general medical care continues to be very important, mental (or behavioral) health care also needs to be considered. In addition to the actual details and characteristics of mental parity, we must also consider the reasons that mental parity is important. Those who know someone with a debilitating mental illness may not agree with the idea that mental health is as important as physical health. However, mental illnesses can become invisible illnesses, considering they are not physically or physiologically visible. Because of this, many people may unknowingly have the disease and disregard the symptoms and do not receive treatment. Research indicates that 10 percent of adults have anxiety disorder, yet it is estimated that only one- fourth of affected persons receive (Altrocchi, J., Antonuccio, D., Basta, R. & Danton, W.G.). Though these afflicted individuals may attempt to receive treatment through general medical practices, often these practices as effective. Often, general medical practitioners are aware of the pharmacological treatments to help the mentally ill, but not the therapeutic or behavioral practices. To truly receive the treatment they need in order to better themselves, they must receive assistance from those trained in mental health. Evidence has shown that 41% of adults in the U.S. with a mental health condition received mental health services in the past and is the 10th leading cause of death in the U.S., the 3rd leading cause of death for people aged and the 2nd leading cause of death for people aged (NAMI). If we took on a different view of mental health and treated it with more care and concern, perhaps these numbers would be different. In addition, if we become more accepting of mental illness, the supply and demand of mental health care professionals may increase, which would also help the situation. Having shown you all the positive effects of mental parity, I must also acknowledge the possible drawbacks and arguments against this policy. A major reason for backlash against mental parity is that some people have a misconception that having this policy will increase the cost of health care. However, the National Business Group on Health observed through studies that mental parity will either cause no increase or a very small increase in the cost of health care (Issue Brief : Parity). Therefore, in this situation the benefits outweigh the drawbacks in order for us to have a happy and healthy society. Now that you have been educated and informed as to why mental parity is important and deserves to be supported, I will tell you why it is important in our current situation and how to support this important policy. As you may know, the house of representatives has passed a bill that pushes the AHCA and repeals the ACA. Though this new act has several differences from the ACA, one of the most important differences is that large companies (more than 50 employers) will no longer be required to offer health insurance (Zurcher). This issue affects all Americans, and would be especially detrimental to individuals with mental health issues that rely on their insurance to help them. To counter this upcoming policy, the biggest things that we can do is call representatives and sign petitions. The idea of calling representatives can be a bit daunting for most people, however there are many different scripts that you can look up on the internet that could help you to prepare. If you feel comfortable with calling, you can find the number of your representative based on zip code through http://www.house.gov/representatives/find/. Another option is to sign petitions, such as the petition on http://www.thepetitionsite.com/898/572/191/oppose-paul-ryans- obamacare-repeal-and-replace-bill/. While petitions may not have the most immediate results, they do further the awareness of the issue. In addition, you may also choose to further the conversation by discussing your stories on social media to highlight the way that health care has been important to your life. This will make more people aware of the issues with repealing the ACA and hopefully convince them to take action themselves. In conclusion, advocating for mental health parity is the most important thing we can do. To benefit the happiness and productivity of our society, as well as be as economically productive as we can, we must offer mental health care services to everyone, equally. Though we as citizens have direct control over the legislative actions that keep this policy in place and strengthen its impact, we may do our part to support it. The most important action we must take is to continue to fight for the policies offered in the ACA. This will allow us to partake in mental health services and recommend our loved ones to do the same. Mental illnesses are invisible, but let their recognition be invisible too. References Altrocchi, J., Antonuccio, D., Basta, R. & Danton, W.G. (1994). Nondrug treatment of anxiety. American Family Physician, 10, 161-6. Health Policy Brief (2014, April 3). Retrieved from Issue Brief: Parity. (2013, November 21). Retrieved April 27, 2017, from http://www.mentalhealthamerica.net/issues/issue-brief-parity Mechanic, D., & McAlpine, D. D. (1999, September). Mission unfulfilled: potholes on the road to mental health parity. Retrieved April 19, 2017, from http://content.healthaffairs.org/content/18/5/7.full.pdf html Mental Health Myths and Facts. (2013, March 14). Retrieved April 27, 2017, from https://www.mentalhealth.gov/basics/myths-facts/ NAMI. (n.d.). Retrieved April 27, 2017, from https://www.nami.org/Learn-More/Mental-Health-By-the-Numbers Zurcher, A. (2017, May 04). Obamacare v Republican plan compared. Retrieved May 05, 2017, from http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-39810145