Rhule 1 Jessica Rhule ENC 1102 Project 3 Intermediate Draft 04/18/2017 Involuntary Commitment: Treat They Have To Over 44,193 Americans die in car accidents caused by texting each year, and for each one 25 more were on life support. Now what if I revealed to you that the word suicide was replaced with car accidents caused by texting in that sentence? The real fact is that 44,193 Americans die from suicide each year, and for everyone of those individuals who died, 25 more made attempts Suicide: Suicide a lot more uncomfortable it? Suicide has been the 10 th leading cause of death in the United Sates since 2014 Causes of It is the 3 rd leading cause for people ages15 to 24, and 1 in 4 people in America will struggle with mental illness in any given year, clearly there is a problem in how we are handling mental illness in America, and time to do something about it. If so many people are struggling, including you and I, or at least someone you know are struggling, why we talk about and get the help we deserve? Despite such a huge epidemic, this discomfort when discussing such topics continues to keep people with these struggles in the dark, and people who do not stay unaware of a gigantic problem that can often be prevented. It is my challenge to you to have the courage to speak up if you feel like you are Rhule 2 struggling or know someone who may be, talk about it and reach out for help before it becomes that severe. Due to the Baker Act in the state of Florida, anytime a professional service provider suspects a person to be a threat of harm to themselves or anyone else due to mental illness, or due to substance usage (Marchman Act) they have to report it to the authorities and the person will most likely be This means the person will be held in a psychiatric receiving facility for up to seventy-two hours, and then reevaluated and typically allowed to leave. For some, this is the wake up call they needed to get proper help, and therefore, they can get effective treatment and find satisfaction and happiness again. However, being Baker Acted can do more harm than good, if the treatment in that seventy-two hours is not received or provided well. The effectiveness of this seventy-two hour hold varies per individual, thus, it is recommended to recognize the early symptoms, and get treatment before it would get to that point. With any other illness like heart disease or cancer, urged and expected to receive treatment immediately. It is talked about, and most of your loved ones would want to provide for you and support you. When there is any other life threatening issue we do not wait for it to be fatal to start treatment, often we even start with prevention, so why would we do that with mental health?... something that can be just as deadly? B4Stage4 It is time, that as college aged people, we destroy this stigma surrounding mental illness and suicide by talking about it and reaching out about our feelings, and ceasing to suffer in silence. Just like these other diseases, no one set cause for suicide and it often develops over time. There are early feelings, thoughts, and behaviors that develop that can be warning signs if you notice them and treat them rather than ignore them or brush them off as meaningless or a passing feeling. First, suicide is not exclusive to those with mental illness, alcohol addiction, or substance use disorder, anyone can show these signs in their talk, behavior, mood, and Rhule 3 thinking, that means anyone is at risk. You, me, you parents, your teachers, all of us. Depression does not care who you are. Some of these warning signs can include thinking one is worthless, has a hopeless future, or that things will never get better for them. Worrisome behaviors might be increased substance usage, any sudden changes in behavior, loss of appetite, giving away valuables, and withdrawing from normal behaviors or from people. Feelings can include feeling depressed, apathetic/loss of interest, quick to anger/irritate, or shift from negative feelings to feelings of relief and content Factors and Warning A large part of the problem is based in society, psychotherapy, medication, and other types of mental health related treatment have a lot of stigma surrounding them. If you struggle you might feel like or have feelings of shame about what you are feeling because of these negative ideas surrounding mental health problems in our society. only does the stigmatization of mental illness prevent in which to a greater risk of suicide, but also suicide can appear to be the best solution for a stigmatized The idea that suicidal thoughts show weakness, and are something to be ashamed of, or selfish plays a large part in preventing individuals from getting treatment early, which can be such a crucial part of the healing process (Pompili, Mancinelli, & Tatrelli). If we can face mental illness as if it was physical illness so many people would stop feeling shame, and guilt, for asking for help with feelings they cannot help. Dealing with suicide, depression, or any other mental illness can be a scary, and isolating experience, but as people who experience these things, we are not alone and we do deserve to have a strong support system to help us through recovery. When you are feeling this way, reaching out can be the first step to finding the flicker of light at the end of the tunnel. If there ever is a time you feel like you could benefit from mental health help, or you are concerned Rhule 4 about someone else, reach out for help, it hurt, and will more than likely, at least prevent it from getting worse. Here at the University of South Florida, there is a 24 hour crisis line at (813)-974-2831, while during office hours you may ask for a counselor, and outside of office hours, press 3 and you will be connected to a counselor, and there are free counseling services for students at SVC 2124. Other resources on campus include the Office of Student Outreach and Support, the Center for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention, and the University Police Department. Outside of campus is the Crisis Center of Tampa Bay which hosts a 365 days of the year, and 24 hours a day, help-line and online help services at 2-1-1, or crisiscenter.com Rhule 5 References Suicide: Suicide American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, 2017, https://afsp.org/about-suicide/suicide-statistics/ University of South Florida, 2017, http://www.usf.edu/student- affairs/counseling-center/ Causes of Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 17 March 2017, https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/fastats/leading-causes-of-death.htm Pompili, M., Mancinelli, I., Tatarelli, R., as a Cause of The British Journal of Psychiatry, Jul. 2003, http://bjp.rcpsych.org/content/183/2/173.2 Factors and Warning American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, 2017, https://afsp.org/about-suicide/risk-factors-and-warning-signs/ Emory University, 2017, http://www.emorycaresforyou.emory.edu/resources/suicidestatistics.html Mental Health America, 2017, http://www.mentalhealthamerica.net/b4stage4-philosophy