Driving is vital within Florida and several parts of the world. Driving provides us the opportunity to expand our presence from where public transportation would not otherwise allow. Especially in regards to outside popular cities where there lacks consistent public transport. It is within our right to drive in almost every country, given the appropriate license to drive. Consequently, there are still several rules and resources that should be presented and explained to new and current drivers and should be more publicized to prevent further collisions or overall interfere with other commuters. For example, within every state in the United States there are state specific DMV websites that provide insight into the world of driving. These sites include information on how to apply to be a new driver along with available driving classes. These classes can be hands on learning in addition to simple informative learning in regards to the basics of how to read driving signs and the proper rules of the road. In addition, these sites can provide a window into how to conduct yourself when you begin driving within a specific state. Most driving laws are universal and there are even sites which provide universal driving licenses at the cost of educating yourself appropriately and taking the necessary steps to test and apply for one. To make sure you are not an issue for other drivers and your driving is not an issue for yourself you should keep these seven things in mind...never drive distracted, make sure you are seated appropriately in your vehicle, maintain a safe driving distance from other drivers, follow all traffic laws, never drive under any influence, maintain your vehicle, and drive extra careful in bad weather. Following traffic laws should not be taken lightly, in most cases breaking one results in an accident. Most are placed so that you and others can be safe on the road and are not meant to degrade you in any way. One typically unenforced rule in many states which is more if a courtesy to other driver is to stick to the right side of the road for traveling and if available pass on the left lanes. However, many seem to forget, that unlike Britain (which follows opposite lane behaviors (left being the side you should be driving on and traveling on and the right being where oncoming traffic arrives from and is the passing side), in many countries you should only travel in the right lane and it is rude and even impedes on others commute if they require to be somewhere faster than the speed which you are traveling. In addition, every car in the 21st century comes equipped with turn signals which signal drivers behind you and even in front of you what direction you wish to turn or what lane you wish to be on. These turn signals too are often forgotten and it is common courtesy and even a danger preventative driving method which alerts other drivers to accommodate for you and allow them to orient themselves to avoid colliding with you. Never driving distracted is something you should always keep in mind for in most cases if you are distracted you are at serious risk. Distractions can ranged from three main areas, which are manual, cognitive, and visual. The manual area regards anything which involves the use of your hands in feet in a fashion which involving use to actually operate your vehicle. For example, reaching for a some fallen change, cleaning a spilled drink, and even adjusting your mirrors are all tasks that you should do when the vehicle is stopped. The cognitive area regards anything which derives focus from the task at hand, such as trying to remember a grocery list, a score for a game, or even thinking about something bad that just happened. When you are not focused you can miss several warning signs such as the car in front of brake lights or a changing traffic light either of which if not responded to can lead to an accident or cause some problem on the road. Lastly, visual distractions are anything which take your eyes away from the road in front of you while driving. One example and is the most dangerous of all visual distractions is texting, texting requires you read and or respond to a message which during so takes cognitive and visual focus both extremely important while operating a vehicle. Besides driving distracted you have to keep in mind the condition of your vehicle in regards to how you are sitting, how far you are from the car in front of you, and what mechanically is wrong with your car. If you are not aware there are specifics you should follow concerning how you are seated to make sure you are not impeding your ability to drive and perform driving maneuvers. Typically you should keep in mind while sitting in your vehicle that you can visually see the hood of your car while still being able to maintain view your view above such as for traffic lights. In addition it is important to be in a comfortable driving position so that you are not too stiff which can overall can affect your ability to make quick and or safe driving maneuvers. Most importantly check your view of your mirrors so that you can see the back of your car ever so slightly in each mirror allowing view of the cars next to you which are slightly behind this should be the same for the center mirror too. Positioning your car appropriately in most scenarios while driving is crucial in preventing accidents, for if you are a good distance away from the car in front of you, you allow much more time in stopping if they happen to crash or slam their brake. Ultimately, the condition of your vehicle can cause you to have a greater risk while driving so it is important to take your car to be looked at once a month or especially at least whenever you have a warning light appear on your dash or you feel your car is behaving differently. Brakes and tires are singularly most important, since they are the main factors in allowing you to stop you should always make sure they are well maintained. Driving under any influence is the equivalent of driving with a handicap. Impairing your driving capability with any type of drug or alcohol is the worst risk you could take while driving. If you would not take your chances on a roller coaster or elevator that is not properly inspected then you should not take such a similar risk to your life while driving. Furthermore, if you care about your own life at least care for the lives of others for being selfish is the most dangerous thing you could be when driving on the road. Driving in bad weather is almost like driving under the influence. However, where you manage your body in the event of any drug you can manage your car in bad weather. In the case of bad weather if the road is wet or icy it is a definite physical fact that you will not be able to drive equal compared to normal weather. Anything on the road provides less friction for your tires to utilize providing longer stopping times and more skidding incidence. Thus, when weather is bad drive slow, maintain a calm attitude for panicking will not allow you to account for the impairment of weather, and most importantly if you think you can driving in bad weather just drive. Driving provides many benefits, but it is within any responsibility to drive to the best of their ability so that less accidents happen and more lives are safe. Driving is dangerous though it is a great thing to have it should never be a right to be taken advantage of. Stay safe and get to where you want to go in one piece cause driving should always be about where you are going and getting there without a problem. Those on the website I created for Project 3