Palacios 1 Daniel Palacios Professor Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 Sec. 075 4 May 2017 Illegal Immigration America started off as a nation built by immigrants and is known for its pledge for acceptance and freedom. Having that in mind should America continue to uphold its promise to accept people from all walks of life including those who have found the need to flee their country illegally? In an attempt to answer this question, the organization in seeks to provide help to illegal immigrants by orienting them into the right direction and showing them their basic human rights. Foreign immigration in the United States of America does more good than harm. They pay annual income taxes and aid the economy of the United States, thus access to American Citizenship through an easier process of naturalization is essential. We can help by encouraging the community to go out and protest for easier immigration processes, talking to state representatives, donating to the day from the National Immigration Forum and more. Immigration in Action was established in 1918 as a direct response to The Immigration Act of 1917, a bill that aimed towards restraining immigrants from entering the United States if they did not complete and pass a literacy exam. Ever since this event, Immigration in Action has worked towards lobbying for laws that protect immigrants as well as ensuring that they know their rights. According to the Center for Immigration Studies, illegal immigration is considered to be the unauthorized resident immigrant population defined as all foreign-born non-citizens who are not legal  Nowadays, some Americans consider illegal immigration to be a crime that Palacios 2 deserves punishment or deportation. What is rarely spoken about is the fact that the statistics on illegal immigration are most often than not inaccurate. It is important for anti-immigration groups to understand that illegal immigrants also have rights and most importantly that they have families who they must provide for. To illustrate, 86 percent of undocumented immigrants have been living in the United States for seven years or longer, 45 percent of unauthorized immigrant households are composed of couples with children and The number of undocumented Mexican nationals arriving to the United States declined by 80 percent between 2004 and 2010. It is also known that voters overwhelmingly reject mass deportation on Immigration As stated before, it is practically impossible to stop illegal immigration from coming into the United States of America and even more impossible is to deport each and every single one of the illegal immigrants living in the United States right now. The whole reason why the majority of immigrants decide to migrate into the United States is because of better opportunities. Being an immigrant myself, I can definitely assure that while I was not living terribly in my home country, it is comparably way better here in the United States. The process of residency and citizenship in the United States is very extensive; it took my family 13 years to finally process the application and obtain residency here. My family migrated to the United States 7 years ago because studying here would be not only ethnically enriching, but also because of the better job opportunities my parents had and that I will have once I finish my studies. This nation is filled with immigrants and as a cause, it makes the people living here not only more educated in the cultures of different people around the world, but also economically since they take the low-income jobs and the the jobs that no American citizen ever was. It is clear that we, as a nation, cannot stop illegal immigration and get rid of it completely, which Is why it is very important to make citizens aware of this issue. We can help in many Palacios 3 different ways. Going out and spreading the word to your community about illegal immigration and how making the naturalization process easier would be the easiest way you can help out. Another way is to talk to your state representatives about making this process easier and bringing this into congress to be discussed makes a huge impact into helping immigrants out. To do this, you can call the U.S. Capitol Switchboard at 202-224-3121 or call your state representative directly, in Tampa Florida, our state representative is Kathy Castor and you can call her office at (813) 871-2817. Donating to different organizations that support the same point of view as Immigration in Action is another way to help; one of these organizations is the National Immigration Forum, they have a program called the day that looks to collect money for 50 days this spring to say thank you to those hard working immigrants that have made a huge positive impact to our nation. To conclude, Immigration in Action is the answer to the big problem of illegal immigration. The problem is not how they come here illegally or how to take them out of the country, the big problem is the complicated process they have to go through to become citizens that discourage them from doing it legally. A simpler immigration system would be the ideal solution to illegal immigration in the United States of America. We can do this by donations, protests, contacting state representatives and more. This will not only stop the conflict of mass deportation that has been debated for years, but will also help the economy and the United States of America overall. If the process is easier, immigrants would not mind going through the process and will reduce the jobs and will give the immigrants their basic human rights in the United States. Palacios 4 Palacios 5 Works Cited National Immigration Forum Practical Solutions For Immigrants And . Immigrationforum.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Demographics Of Immigrants In The United States Illegally - Illegal Immigration . Immigration.procon.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 3 Apr. 2017. Illegal Immigration Center For Immigration . Cis.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 3 Apr. 2017. Illegal Immigration Reform And Immigration Responsibility . LII / Legal Information Institute. N.p., 2017. Web. 3 Apr. 2017. MALDEF: Undocumented Immigrants DO Have Legal Rights - . Maldef.org. N.p., n 2017. Web. 3 Apr. 2017. The Facts On Immigration Today - Center For American . Center for American Progress. N.p., 2017. Web. 3 Apr. 2017. U.S. Immigration Since 1965 - Facts & Summary - . HISTORY.com. N.p., 2017. Web. 3 Apr. 2017. Yes, Illegal Aliens Have Constitutional . TheHill. N.p., 2017. Web. 3 Apr. 2017.