Boucher 1 Moving to Biofuel Humanity has been making heavy use of coal since the discovery of steam power. This, however, cannot last indefinitely. For one, coal is a fossil fuel and in in limited supply on the planet. Additionally, the various chemicals released when burning coal have detrimental effects. Therefore, energy corporations must begin to transition to biofuels such as algae. It is common knowledge that coal is a fossil fuel. That means that it takes hundreds of millions of years to form. Once it has all been burned it will take just as long for our supply to replenish. Yet it is still used to generate most of our power. We cannot wait until there is only a grain of coal left to start on alternative ways to produce energy. A mentality of cross that bridge when we get to will result in there being no bridge to cross in the end. It would be best to stop using coal to produce energy because of a superior energy source, and not because of there simply being no more coal to burn. Therefore, companies must begin to research and fund biofuels to replace fossil fuels like coal. Even if coal was renewable, it would not be advised to continue as a prime fuel source. This is from the fact that the burning fossil fuels such as coal is harmful to people as well as the earth itself. To start, there is the copious amount of air pollution caused by the burning. Alfred article, Burning Fossil Fuels, stated that in 2016 it was, estimated that air pollution alone already kills more than three million people a . Non-lethal amounts have their own effects. In Frederica article, Multiple Threats to Child Health from Fossil Fuel Combustion: Impacts of Air Pollution and Climate Change, prospective study of almost 2,000 schoolchildren found that children exposed to higher levels of air pollution, including NO2 and PM2.5, had significantly lower lung function growth at 18 years of age, an age when the lungs are nearly mature and lung function deficits are unlikely to be If these fuels continue to be used, the next generation will truly not be able to breathe easy, in quite the literal sense. And then there are the effects on the planet. Sommer tells of how global warming is also a Boucher 2 legitimate concern. He says how it is due to the fact that the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere determines temperature change, to a degree. Since coal releases high amounts of CO2 upon burning, it is a primary contributor to this problem. Sommer also wrote how the concentration of CO2 has gone up by nearly fifty percent since around 1860, before which it was stable for 7000 years. Around 1860 is also when coal started being used as a primary fuel. It is highly probable that those facts are not merely coincidental. According to Jianliang Wang and his article, The implications of fossil fuel supply constraints on climate change projections: A supply-side analysis, currently, the global climate system will exceed a dangerous level (taken as 450 ppm and 2 degrees C, respectively) this century even if only consuming current conventional fossil fuel The article, CLEANING UP COAL POWER, written by Amanda Saint, states how clean coal solutions can drastically cut the carbon emitted into the atmosphere, but they really help cut how much is emitted in total which is the real problem. The usage of fossil fuels need to stop as soon as possible. What is expected of companies though, that have coal as their main source of profit. Of course, they are not expected to stop using coal outright and immediately switch to clean energies. That would not only destroy their revenue, but also leave a lot of people without the power that coal supplies. The better solution at this moment in time is to introduce algae farming to the existing coal stations. Algae derived biofuel is the best option for a few reasons. The paper Macroalgae and microalgae as a potential source for commercial applications along with biofuels production: A biorefinery approach by T. Suganya and others, tells of how farming and then using algae as a biofuel is greatly beneficial. One benefit stated is how during the algae cultivation CO2 levels in the surroundings are reduced. That means setting up the farms next to a power plants would be highly advantageous. Another stated advantage of algae I that unlike many prospective biofuels, it does not use substances that could be utilized instead for food production. Currently, biofuel derived from algae cannot be made with enough efficiency to warrant its use widespread. This is, as Jingjing Li and his associates state in their article, Boucher 3 Review: Biological potential of microalgae in China for biorefinery-based production of biofuels and high value compounds, due to huge energy costs associated with algae cultivation, harvesting and . It requires more research and funding to be put into by all energy companies. Doing so is fully possible as well, as shown by the fact that the major company Exxon Mobile has started putting funding and research into algae farming among other biofuels. On their website they make the statement, continue to evaluate our best options for continued algae biology research as part of our broader portfolio of biofuels research and development programs beyond If one company can do so, then so can all others. Coal is dangerous to people, the planet, and will eventually run out. Therefore, all companies must start introducing clean energies, specifically algae biofuels, now. This way, fossil fuels can be progressively and efficiently edged out. A future where people can breathe easy is within reach. Boucher 4 Works sited Exxon Mobil Advanced Biofuels. http://corporate.exxonmobil.com/en/energy/research-and- development/advanced-biofuels/advanced-biofuels-overview#global-websites. Accessed 5/3/17 Suganya, T., Varman, M., Masjuki, H.H., Renganathan, S. Macroalgae and microalgae as a potential source for commercial applications along with biofuels production: A biorefinery approach. Elsevier Ltd, Mach 2016. Web Perera, Frederica. Multiple Threats to Child Health from Fossil Fuel Combustion: Impacts of Air Pollution and Climate Change. Environmental Health Perspectives. Feb2017, Vol. 125 Issue 2, p141-148. Web Sommer, Alfred. Burning Fossil Fuels. International Journal of Health Services (INT J HEALTH SERV), Jan2016; 46(1): 48-52. Web Wang, Jianliang; Feng, Lianyong; Tang, Xu; Bentley, Yongmei; Mikael. The implications of fossil fuel supply constraints on climate change projections: A supply-side analysis. In Futures Feb2017 86:58-72. Web Saint, Amanda. CLEANING UP COAL POWER. Engineering & Technology (17509637); Nov2015, Vol. 10 Issue 10, p50-52. Web Li, Jingjing; Liu, Ying; Cheng, Jay J.; Mos, Michal; Daroch, Maurycy. Review: Biological potential of microalgae in China for biorefinery-based production of biofuels and high value compounds. European Congress of Biotechnology - ECB 16, New BIOTECHNOLOGY 25 December 2015 32(6):588-596.Web