Running head: ALTERNATIVE FOR THE FLU VACCINE 1 An Alternative for the Existing Flu Vaccine Cristina V. Shawver U30946798 University of South Florida Running head: ALTERNATIVE FOR THE FLU VACCINE 2 Influenza, commonly referred to as the flu, is a respiratory infection characterized by several uncomfortable symptoms such as body aches, chills, cough, fever, headaches, and sore throat (Medline Plus, 2017). To combat risk of acquiring the flu, most individuals receive the flu vaccine without having researched the contents or effectiveness of the vaccine. While the advertisements on TV show that the vaccine is a great option to prevent the flu, most have any knowledge about the vaccine. What most people are unaware of is that there are many harmful ingredients used to make the vaccine such as formaldehyde, monosodium glutamate (MSG) and mercury. Also, the flu vaccine is not always effective to prevent the flu virus as the effectiveness of the vaccine can be altered during its creation. Rather than continuing to use these vaccines and ignoring their potential risks, an alternative to this vaccine must be created. To make this new vaccine a reality, sign the petition on change.org for the government to increase funding to create a new flu vaccine with natural, more effective ingredients. As stated, influenza comes with a variety of symptoms which stem from a respiratory infection. Each flu season, a new vaccine must be adapted to fit the strain of virus that spreads for that year. While the flu vaccine is a popular preventer of the flu, the ingredients inside it seem to raise a question. The flu vaccine is created from egg embryos combined with the specific strain of virus to ensure that the virus is stopped (National Vaccination Information Center). Does not seem too harmful right? What mentioned by most doctors, is that the vaccine contains much more than that. According to the NVIC, the flu vaccine contains other ingredients such as monosodium glutamate (MSG), formaldehyde, and thimerosal (a form of mercury). MSG is an additive, most commonly found in foods, known for causing various symptoms such as headaches, chest pain, and nausea (Mayo Clinic, 2017). According to their safety data sheets, formaldehyde and thimerosal can be toxic to the kidneys, liver, spleen, bone marrow, and central Running head: ALTERNATIVE FOR THE FLU VACCINE 3 nervous system (MSDS). As seen, MSG, formaldehyde, and thimerosal are all substances that should not be included in vaccines because they can have harmful effects on the body. Understanding the harm that the chemicals inside the vaccine can have on the body affirms that this vaccine should be created with more natural, less harmful ingredients. Do you really want those chemicals inside you and your body? If you answered that question above, the answer was most likely no. Another fact that most individuals aware of is the flu vaccine can become ineffective through mutations during its creation. This means, the vaccine can become ineffective while it is being made. According to a study researching the effectiveness of the 2013 flu vaccine, the vaccine became ineffective as they, that it because of something happening in nature, but rather something in manufacturing [that caused the It was actually at the vaccine candidate virus stage, the egg-adapted stage, that those mutations in the vaccine virus were  (Roos, 2014). Due to the mutation, the vaccine had reduced effectiveness during the 2013 flu season. Although it always known how effective the shot will be until after many patients take it, important that the parents can be sure whether or not their family will be protected from the flu. This points towards the need for a vaccine that can lower the risk of getting the flu more than the vaccine that currently exists does. Putting this into effect will greater protect families and loved ones from receiving the horrible symptoms of the flu. Knowing that the ingredients inside the flu shot healthy for the body and the shot always effective, why do families continue to be vaccinated? This question can be answered through another study, which asked 500 parents what influenced their flu-shot decisions for their children (Flood, 2010). They found that 95% decided to vaccinate their families for prevention of influenza and 89% vaccinated due to doctor recommendation. Many parents desire to keep their Running head: ALTERNATIVE FOR THE FLU VACCINE 4 children free of the flu virus, but are blind to facts about the flu vaccine. Specifically, most are unaware of the harmful chemicals that are put inside your body when you decide to take the flu vaccine. Beyond that, taking into consideration both the chemicals inside and the truth that the vaccine can be ineffective, makes it seem like more of a risk than protection. What if there was a better option, a new vaccine? A great solution to the problem is that a new vaccine must be created that not only better treats the flu virus, but also is made with more natural ingredients. With better ingredients, you as parents have to fear the chemicals that could potentially harm your body. Also, a significant change that needs to be implemented in the new vaccine is increased efficiency. The new vaccine needs stronger ingredients that fight off the flu, because without that, there is no reason for a new vaccine. Currently, the vaccine is not effective enough to ensure a greatly reduced chance of getting the flu, which must be changed. To help further the proposition of this new natural flu vaccine, join me and sign the petition on Change.org. The petition outlines a detailed list of the concerns of the current flu vaccine and how the public will benefit from a natural alternative. The purpose of it is to get the government to increase funding on this matter, so that a change can be made. With more money, the government will have greater opportunities to explore more holistic ingredients for medicine and boost the efficiency of the vaccine. Rather than continuing to accept and receive this vaccine knowing its flaws, the public should take immediate action. If enough supporters sign, a change can be made to better the flu vaccination for everyone. If you sign this petition, the government will see that people care about this subject and are willing to take action to ensure a new flu vaccine is made. Not only will you protect your own family, but the generations after you will see healthier flu seasons for their Running head: ALTERNATIVE FOR THE FLU VACCINE 5 children. Taking this one small step of signing the petition can lead to a much larger change, the creation of a better flu vaccine and healthier people. Running head: ALTERNATIVE FOR THE FLU VACCINE 6 References Flood, E. M. (2010). Decision-Making Regarding Vaccinating Their Children Against Influenza: A Web-Based Survey. Clinical Therapeutics,32(8). Retrieved April 15, 2017. Formaldehyde. MSDS. Sciencelab. Retrieved April 15, 2017, from http://www.sciencelab.com/msds.php?msdsId=9925236 Mayo Clinic. (2015, March 13). Monosodium glutamate (MSG): Is it harmful? Retrieved April 15, 2017, from http://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle/nutrition-and-healthy- eating/expert-answers/monosodium-glutamate/faq-20058196 Medline Plus. (2017, January 02). Flu . Retrieved April 15, 2017, from https://medlineplus.gov/flu.html#summary NVIC. (n.d.). Influenza Information - Diseases and Vaccines - NVIC. Retrieved April 15, 2017, from http://www.nvic.org/Vaccines-and-Diseases/Influenza.aspx#flu-vaccine Roos, R. (2014, March 28). Study: Mutations during egg step cut last flu vaccine effectiveness. Retrieved April 15, 2017, from http://www.cidrap.umn.edu/news- perspective/2014/03/study-mutations-during-egg-step-cut-last-years-flu-vaccine- effectiveness Thimerosal. MSDS. Sciencelab. Retrieved April 15, 2017, from http://www.sciencelab.com/msds.php?msdsId=9925236