Sturm 1 Harrison Sturm Professor Staiger ENC 1102.005 30 April 2017 The Fight Against Hydraulic Fracturing In the modern era, the world runs on oil. Oil is used as fuel, a means of generating power, a lubricant, the creation of plastics, construction materials, and countless other uses. For years, the method of reaching this resource was to drill into the ground until the well runs dry and then find the next place to drill. In attempts to avoid buying oil from other countries or to expand the market, several oil companies have developed hydraulic fracturing to obtain oil instead of common drilling. Instead of using pumps to siphon oil from the ground, pressurized water is used to crack shale deposits which releases oils and fuels that can now be to the surface. This method has resulted in a booming industry just as conventional drilling has done in the past, with the same ecological consequences or possibly worse. Spills, contaminated water, health risks, and polluted air are just a few of the issues of using hydraulic fracturing to obtain oil. However, several groups speak against hydraulic fracturing and it is possible for others to add their own voice against the use of hydraulic fracturing. A few examples as to how these groups demand these changes can be the limiting the use of electronic appliances, send messages to local or state officials for new regulations or proposals through political pressure, help fund new energy research options, and raise awareness by stating the impacts caused by the use of hydraulic fracturing and possible alternatives. Sturm 2 Most oil companies require special chemical solutions to obtain oil from the ground and these solutions are mainly deriving from freshwater. Freshwater is one of the most important resources on the entire planet due to its necessity for life to exist. A difficult resource to find and even harder to keep pure, freshwater is rapidly disappearing from many regions in the world. To make matters even worse, it is used to obtain oils and gasses. These oils and gasses can escape and contaminate local groundwater. Chris Mooney, a writer for Scientific American, explains why water used for hydraulic fracturing impacts the environment. Freshwater is pure, which is perfect for drinking as well as extracting oils and gasses. One of the biggest wastes of freshwater is not due to the spills, but instead the of freshwater from arid regions, especially during drought (Money 9). The freshwater is wasted for marginal benefits while entire ecosystems fail due to the lack of the scarce, precious resource that only comes a few times per year. Adding more complications is that once used, the water is contaminated and difficult to clean or store for long periods of time. This usually results in hazardous disposal which can in turn contaminate more water and further affect an ecosystem. The constant use of freshwater for hydraulic fracturing is not the only concern as to why the method is dangerous. Another reason as to why hydraulic fracturing is a danger to the environment is because of the method used for obtaining oils and gases. High pressurized water cracks shale rock at high speeds, similarly to how a jackhammer works. This however causes earthquakes due to vibrations from shale being shattered underground in extreme pressures. Geophysicist Austin A. Holland provided a direct correlation between hydraulic fracturing wells and earthquakes. During the time of drilling, earthquakes were reported but when the drilling stopped the can be observed to cease during this period and resume after hydraulic Sturm 3 fracturing had (Holland 1). While most of the recorded earthquakes occurred far from any major tectonic fault line, it is not difficult to know how devastating a natural earthquake can be. An artificial earthquake in an unstable fault line would undoubtedly cause far worse harm should hydraulic fracturing occur on or near such a location. Despite these fears, there are ways to prevent ecological damage. One of the methods of getting rid of a process to apply heavy regulations that force companies to invest in other pursuits. A few of these regulations are explained by Kristy Hartman, policy specialist for the National Conference of State Legislatures. These regulations vary in severity or depth but they are target to either stall, enforce heavy safety requirements, or even ban the installation of hydraulic fracturing sites in several states. While some of these regulations are possible to fail due to lack of petitioners or state governors refusing to sign them, will continue their efforts to ensure these new practices are safe for the public and the (Hartman 3). Regardless of how effective these regulations are, they still force oil companies to spend the time and effort to make safe drilling process which can lead to a slow loss in interest. Another example of anti hydraulic fracturing movements occurs in the United Kingdom. Recorded by Peter Jones, a business member of the University of Gloucestershire, several in the United Kingdom cry out against the government and the attempts at establishing new drilling sites. Many regions targeted by oil companies are either countryside farmlands or private property. Drilling in these locations would not only displace the local population but the landscape would be scarred and damaged. This has resulted in the populace to take action in an attempt to stop exploratory drilling (Jones 14). The government, despite Sturm 4 attempting to appease to the public, struggles to gain momentum due to the strong lobbying against hydraulic fracturing. Even with regulations and the public calling for the banning of hydraulic fracturing, locations that conduct hydraulic fracturing with strong regulations can still fall victim to disasters. An accident, improper construction, or plain carelessness can pollute and cause damage. Environmental engineer Namita Shrestha provides examples as to why water tables can be polluted despite regulations. One such example is allowing oils and gasses access out of confinement during drilling processes. No amount of regulation or construction procedures would be able to change fissures or openings, allowing gas to travel far (Shrestha 7). These openings, along with shoddy construction or simple accidents can result in the release of oils and gasses which seep into the environment. The fight against hydraulic fracturing can seem impossible due to the difficulty and lengths required to causes changes in the market and society. However, USF students can help fight against the use of oil and the need of hydraulic fracturing to obtain it. Students can do several things to help. A few examples are to support research efforts either through funding or direct help if they have the skills during interns, start or join lobbyist groups to protest towards government officials, look for information that can be shared to others to increase awareness on hydraulic fracturing, or simply turn off their appliances to cut the use of electricity. These methods can seem small and insignificant at first but they can help to create a change in how we generate energy. These reasons are important for the sake of the environment and future generations. The world can easily be damaged but not easily repaired and no one would want their grandchildren to be forced to deal with a polluted atmosphere or scarred landscape. The acts Sturm 5 of today will impact tomorrow which is why doing nothing to stop hydraulic fracturing will result in someone else paying the price in the future. Hydraulic fracturing is a powerful means of obtaining oils and gasses and a dangerous threat to ecosystems. The society of today has the technology to find a new energy source but due to the abundance of oil and gas these more efficient, cleaner methods are passed by for the sake of convenience. If the public were to fund private organizations, lobby against oil companies, and reduce the use of electronics renewable energy sources could become a reality sooner than later. The use of conventional nonrenewable resources are damaging the world and will continue to do so unless people find a new means of generating energy. It may be difficult to research a new energy source, but constant use of oil is not the solution and hydraulic fracturing is only adding more issues by supplying it. Sturm 6 Works Cited Hartman, Kristy. Economies of Shale: Hydraulic Fracturing Has Unlocked Huge Amounts of Oil and Gas, Helping Boost State Economies Even as It Generates Environmental and Public Health  State Legislatures , no. 6, 2015, p. 28. EBSCO host , ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed . Holland, Austin A. Earthquakes Triggered by Hydraulic Fracturing in  http://www.bssaonline.org/content/103/3/1784.short , 2017. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. Jones, Peter, David Hillier, and Daphne Comfort. Fracking in the UK: planning and property  , Emerald Group Publishing Limited, 2014. Accessed 11 Apr. 2017. Mooney, Chris. The Truth about  0.html , Scientific American, 18 Oct. 2011. Accessed 11 Apr. 2017. Shrestha, Namita, Govinda Chilkoor, Joseph Wilder, and Venkataman Gadhemshetty. Potential water resource impacts of hydraulic fracturing from unconventional oil production in the Bakken  http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S004313541630851X , Science Direct, 17 Jan. 2017. Accessed 11 Apr. 2017.