Rodriguez 1 Eric Rodriguez ENC1102 Professor Campbell April 18, 2017 Sioux: Mni Wiconi On March 10 th of the year 2017, a rally was held in Washington D.C.; organized by the Sioux of Standing Rock. This was the end of a four-day protest to bring attention to the ongoing crisis regarding the rights of native nations that are accounted for by specific legislation, like various treaties, or the Constitution. For the past few years, there has been a conflict over the construction of a pipeline to access the Bakken Oil reservoirs. The project is called the Dakota Access Pipeline(DAPL) or the Keystone Pipeline. Energy Transfer Partners (ETP) are a conglomerate behind the project. Sunoco is a major shareholder in the company. The United States Army Corps of Engineers (US ACE) has been signing off on all plans and public/federal land use that the pipeline covers. This contention captures an array of issues and at the center of them all are the Standing Rock Sioux. They have had their way of life, rights, and environment threatened simultaneously, which is unacceptable and needs to change. The Sioux have a rich history. Between the end of the and the they traded fur with the Dutch and the French prior to expansion westward. Their business would be solely with the United States. Their culture and lifestyle are based in their religion. They believe that humans and animals not competing, but are interrelated and interdependent elements of the The Sioux along with the Cheyanne were forced onto the reservations where their decedents now reside by the end of the year 1870. They have struggled to maintain Rodriguez 2 their image as a people due to westernization of their practices. They are still here with their national identity intact but it is still under threat. The Indigenous Peoples within our country are U.S. citizens. Along with special rights associated with their status, they are entitled to the same right as any American. The first amendment is famously heralded for our Freedom of speech, press, to gather and protest (peacefully). Frequently overlooked is the Freedom of Religion portion. The aforementioned rights were seriously infringed upon during the construction of the pipeline. sites for the religious practic0es of the Sioux were bulldozed prematurely (Gibbon, Parks, Visits Standing Work had been halted by the supreme court due to the Sioux concerns about sacred sites in the pipeline path. However, the bulldozing was not signed off on by USACE. DAPL continued their work in spite of the illegality hold on their operations. They kept protesters at bay with the use of Mace and attack dogs. Twenty-seven graves were destroyed and the remains within disturbed. This sacred land is important in ceremonies surrounding rituals within the ancient Sioux religion (Gibbon, Parks). The Sioux and those who support them have gathered countless times in areas all over the globe. Other news sources covered the story before local stations had. The Native Americans had to picket local media stations to get news coverage of their protests Visits Standing Being thus marginalized they had to protest to get out the news that they were protesting. The public apathy towards the Native American cause has allowed big companies to get away with atrocities such as bulldozing sacred sites, threatening water supplies, and harming peaceful protestors. The controversy lies mainly in the dispute over water. The original plans for the pipeline lead on a path away from waterbodies, but after concern was raised for the water qualities in Rodriguez 3 Bismarck, USACE approved the current route. It runs under several rivers and Lake Oahe (Northlandiguana). The water that supplies the reservation and millions of people downstream is now at risk if anything were to go wrong. The outrage is within reason. However, the Energy Transfer Partners claim that the private land allows them to build (Home). The problem is that through the various water legislation the natives have certain rights to the water. It is also more than water, it is the respect and preservation of the Sioux at risk here They are, once again, being cheated without fair voice in the matter. ETP claims their leaders have been in contact the entire time with the Tribal Council, which the council denies The supreme court has been in and out on this topic, the Natives struggle with proper processing power. There are subject to the time consuming legal process (Facebook.com/lakotapeopleslawproject). You can sign a petition at Lakotapeopleslawproject.org Although it may not seem like it, this is a civil rights and human rights movement. The Native Americans have been oppressed by the US government. Their lands have been taken from them and they had been taken advantage of for the sake of the economy for as long as the Country has been here and then some. They are speaking out for fair treatment which according to history is the definition of a rights movement. Many similarities can be drawn between the Civil Rights movement from the and this movement. In both movements, the children played vital roles by taking initiative and understanding the need for such powerful peaceful demonstrations. The march in Birmingham kids walked from all over (Gilmore). For the Indians, a little girl and 12 of her friends ran all the way from the reservation to the white Visits Standing ). The black teens in the drove to the rally meetings (Gilmore). Lakota youth rode horses to the construction zones. There have been attacks on the Rodriguez 4 protesters in several cases both then and now. All the protesters were peaceful, both groups have had dogs released in which people have suffered severe bites. On the Sioux front there were rubber bullets, tear gas, water cannons and some arrests were made (Russel). There seems to be an expectation that violence and the censorship of voice to happen in all other countries except our own because it is We so easily forget the deprecating sins within our history. The longer we as a people stand by while our fellows are harmed by the oppression they so courageously fight, we have abandoned them. It is morally wrong. The message is one of hope and preservation. Their campaign slogan is in Lakota: Mni . It means water is life. They understand the concept of sustainability and have for centuries . The Native Americans of the plains have seen many species disappear due to disturbances to their habitats or overhunting (Miller). None more iconic then the buffalo. As a people, they pride themselves in their culture in which they take only what they need so that there may be enough to go around, today and in the future. The Oceti Sakowin, or Seven Council Fires camp, is located near the edge of the Standing Rock reservation has been a beacon of that concept. It was recently evacuated and bulldozed for the pipeline to progress (OcetiSakowin.org). The beliefs shared that the earth is a powerful (spiritual) force, and its preservation will lead to ours in the future is what brought all of the water protectors together. water there cannot be life and without life there be anyone to support an Rock Sioux Chairman Describes Mood After Pipeline This issue encompasses many facets that allow it to be inexcusable in history such as Constitutional, environmental and human rights. With the fight not yet over, people still protest and donate to the Sioux to help cover legal fees, as should you. The fate of the environment in the U.S. is uncertain with a President who has the worst environmental policy; he have Rodriguez 5 one. Still, many people look to the future generation to take heed of the warnings and continue working towards a cleaner dignified and proud future. Do your part in delivering justice and saving the world. Works Cited Access Pipeline Dakota Access Pipeline Facts, daplpipelinefacts.com/ Gibbon, Guy. The Sioux: the Dakota and Lakota Nations. Oxford, Blackwell, 2006. Gilmore, Kim. Birmingham Crusade of Biography.com, A&E Networks Television, 19 Jan. 2015, www.biography.com/news/black-history-birmingham- childrens-crusade-1963-video. U.S. Department of the Interior, www.doi.gov/. EnergyTransfer.com - Home Page, Energy Transfer Partners, www.energytransfer.com/. Facebook.com/digitalsmokesignals/ Facebook.com/lakotapeoplelawproject/ Visits Standing MSNBC, NBCUniversal News Group, 6 Sept. 2016, www.msnbc.com/the-last-word/watch/lawrence-visits-standing-rock-759206979622. Accessed 28 Apr. 2017. Pipeline Settles Alleged Clean Water Act Violations Related to Spills in Texas, Nebraska and EPA, Environmental Protection Agency, 19 Jan. 2017, www.epa.gov/newsreleases/magellan-pipeline-settles-alleged-clean-water-act- violations-related-spills-texas. Rodriguez 6 Miller, G. Tyler, and Scott Spoolman. Living in the Environment, AP Edition. 16th ed. Belmont, C.A.: Brooks/Cole, Cengage Learning, 2012. Print. Northlandiguana. #NoDAPL Northlandia, Wordpress, 2 Dec. 2016, northlandia.wordpress.com/2016/11/01/a-nodapl-map/. Accessed 27 Apr. 2017 Parks, Douglas R. and Raymond J. DeMallie. Sioux Indian Religion. [Electronic : Tradition and Innovation. Norman : University of Oklahoma Press, c1987., 1987. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ca t00847a&AN=usflc.020907748&site=eds-live. Russell, Kay. Smoke Facebook - Log In or Sign Up, Facebook.com, 21 Nov. 2016, www.facebook.com/DigitalSmokeSignals/. Accessed 1 May 2017. Standing Rock, Kkbold, standingrock.org/. Accessed 19 Mar. 2017. Standing Rock Sioux Chairman Describes Mood After Pipeline  Weekend All Things Considered, 10 Sept. 2016. Literature Resource Center, go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/i.do?p=LitRC&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&i t=r&id=GALE%7CA463246417&asid=caabd54f09dd205aa9eb7b17390b93c4. Accessed 15 Feb. 2017