Sanson 1 Jacqueline Sanson Erika Staiger Composition II 16 April 2017 The Welfare of Market Animals A market animal is any animal raised for the production of a product people use which includes meat, eggs, and milk. In recent times, the demand for animal products has increased in the United States and consumption is at its highest (Pluhar 456). This has led to what is known as factory farming. Factory farming is defined by Pluhar, a professor of philosophy, as, industrialized system of producing meat, eggs, and milk in large-scale facilities where the animal is treated as a (1). This now popular practice in farming has many downfalls including the health of employees, the environment and animals (Plurah 457). In particular, the animals that must spend their whole lives in these conditions are greatly abused by the system. More worrisome is that farm animals, which are most often used as market animals, are completely left out of the Animal Welfare Act and therefore have no protection under the law. In order to create change, USF students should purchase only products that use animals treated humanely as well as signing a petition to amend the Animal Welfare Act to include market animals. Market animals in the United States live in highly cramped areas, provided very little stimuli throughout their entire life, exposed to rampant disease, and often times must experience stressful events. Although practices vary between species and farms, animal welfare is often very low. The wellbeing of these animals can be determined by the frequency of normal behaviors they exhibit. When it comes to chickens raised for meat, called broilers, the Animal Welfare chair Shana Bergmann and others states that, should have the possibility to run freely, Sanson 2 peck, scratch, flap their wings, groom their plumage and rest and sleep (8). In a study conducted on broiler chickens it was seen that behaviors like locomotion and foraging were seen less in groups of broiler chickens that were raised in a conventional manner than the chickens that were less crowded and given perches and straw (Bergmann et al 22). The chickens in the first group exhibited less healthy behaviors than the second, which shows that the conventional manner of raising broiler chickens can have a negative effect on the wellbeing of the individual broiler chickens. Animals are often mutilated in order to reduce the effects of unhealthy behaviors. Nordquist of the Behavior and Welfare group and team states, procedures . . . were introduced to counteract problems that emerged when livestock farming became intensified, such as tail docking in fattening pigs in response to tail (10). Not only are these animals in living conditions that are not optimal, they must suffer procedures that mutilate their bodies in order to keep factory farming productive. Many other practices also raise concerns for animal welfare. These include the early separation of calves from their mothers, gestation crates for nursing pigs that severely limit mobility, the restriction of water for pigs, increased disease, and individual housing for social animals (Nordquist et al 7). Regardless of how mistreated a market animal is, they are not protected by law. The Animal Welfare Act specifically excludes farm animals from the protection of its guidelines. Therefore, the people in charge of market animal operations have no reason to improve conditions for these animals if it is not profitable. The welfare of market animals should be a moral concern to those who use animal products. The use of animals in many fields is often justified on the belief that animals are not sentient beings as humans are. Proctor from World Society for the Protection of Animals and team notes emotional experience of humans is both a personal experience and subject to Sanson 3 false reporting. We do not deny that humans are sentient because of this, but many do question animal sentience on the same (20). Although there may not be proof for animal sentience there is still reason to believe that they feel similar emotional states as humans. Therefore, market animals should be given higher quality of life in order to eliminate suffering. One way these quality of life should be bettered is improving their health. The extent of current conditions can be summarized when Plurah a professor of philosophy at Pennsylvania State University brings to light, Pollan recounts being asked to don a biohazard suit before visiting a brooder (2). Disease intensified by factory farming is especially concerning because not only does it effects market animals but also humans. The consumption of contaminated animal products and the wide spread use of antibiotics, which help create antibiotic resistant strains of bacteria, are both problems created by intensive farming practices (Plurah 456). The problems caused by current farming practices are far reaching and must be addressed. Although the problem may be too large for one person to change, USF students can take steps to improve the welfare of animals. One way USF students can do their part is by only purchasing animal products that use animals treated humanely. The use of labels that indicate free range or organic ensure that the animals were at least raised with excess to pasture land (Heerwagen et al 73). The purchase of these kinds of products make it more profitable for animals to be raised with higher welfare practices. According to Heerwagen from the Journal of Agriculture and Environmental Ethics and team, welfare legislation have turned interest towards market-based improvements in animal (7). Therefore consumers have the power to better the welfare of market animals by changing what is profitable, in this case better animal welfare. Another way that animal welfare for market animals can be increased is by amending the Animal Welfare Act which currently excludes farm animals. This means that Sanson 4 market animals are currently not protected by the law. In order to change this USF students can amend the Animal Welfare Act by signing a petition. Once it reaches 100,000 signatures it can be considered by congress (whitehouse.gov). If the petition is successful students can call their representatives and encourage them to pass the bill. USF students have the ability to change the treatment of market animals whether it be by buying products with higher welfare standards, signing a petition. The current state of market animal welfare is very concerning. Animals must live in conditions that are not natural, causing stress and unhealthy behaviors. These animals are also subjected to cruel practices like mutilation in order for the animals to be more profitable. This should be a concern to USF students that use animal products. The conditions that these animals must face because these animals suffer discomfort and raises the question that current uses of market animals may not be ethical. Therefore the conditions these animals live in need to be improved. USF students can take part in this change by buying products that promote better animal welfare and signing a petition to amend the Animal Welfare act. Sanson 5 Work Cited Bergmann, Shana, Angela Schwarzer, Katharina Wilutzky, Helen Louton, Josef Bachmeier, Paul Schmidt, Michael Erhard, and Elke Rauch. Behavior as welfare indicator for the rearing of broilers in an enriched husbandry environment a field  Journal of Veterinary Behavior: Clinical Applications and Research (2017): n. pag. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Heerwagen, Lennart Ravn, et al. The Role of Quality Labels in Market-Driven Animal  Journal of Agricultural & Environmental Ethics, no. 1, 2015, p. 67. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s10806-014-9521-z. Nordquist, Rebecca E., et al. Mutilating Procedures, Management Practices, and Housing Conditions That May Affect Thewelfare of Farm Animals: Implications for Welfare  Animals (2076-2615), vol. 7, no. 2, Feb. 2017, pp. 1-22. EBSCOhost, doi:10.3390/ani7020012. Pluhar, Evelyn. Meat and Morality: Alternatives to Factory  Journal of Agricultural & Environmental Ethics, vol. 23, no. 5, Oct. 2010, pp. 455-468. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s10806-009-9226-x. Proctor, Helen S., et al. Searching for Animal Sentience: A Systematic Review of the Scientific  Animals (2076-2615), vol. 3, no. 3, Sept. 2013, pp. 882-906. EBSCOhost, doi:10.3390/ani3030882. About We the  The White House. The United States Government, n.d. Web. 23 Apr. 2017.