Saito 1 Yuki Saito Krista Townsend ENC 1120 16 April 2017 Introducing Bitcoin to the World What is a common currency of the world? There are different currencies from different countries, such as dollar, Euro, and Yen. However, you cannot use a dollar outside of the United States. You always have to exchange your currency to purchase a commodity in a different country. Exchange rate between currencies always give you risks of losing value of your currency as well. One dollar equaled to eighty Yen in 2015, and now one dollar equals to one hundred and twenty Yen, according to the Foreign Exchange Market of 2017 by Forex Trading. The value of dollars increased by fifty percent and the value of Yen decreased by fifty percent in two years. Nobody can predict the change in exchange rates and the value of dollars could decrease instead, which means you would have to pay 120 dollars for something that used to be 80 dollars before. Do you want to take the risk for no reason? You do not need to take the risk if you use a worldwide currency, for example, Bitcoin. Bitcoin is a virtual currency, which was invented by Satoshi Nakamoto, an unknown programmer who vanished in 2014, according to his article of 2016 Mysterious Satoshi by Ian Steadman. Bitcoin is a future worldwide currency that people all over the world are going to use instead of their currencies, and you would like to exchange your currency as soon as possible to promote the use of Bitcoin. In 2014, Virtual money was defined by an 2014 article by The European Banking Authority as digital representation of value that is neither issued by a central bank or a public authority, nor necessarily attached to a flat currency, but is accepted by natural or legal persons as a means of payment and can be transferred, stored or traded (European Banking Authority).The Bitcoin network is not owned by anyone and it is only controlled by its users around the world, because Nakamoto designed Bitcoin based on his philosophical reasons that currency be under any kind of central control (Steadman 1). Since Bitcoin is a virtual currency, there is no border and no need to exchange currency Saito 2 between countries. The economy integrated yet and people have to go through currency exchanges. However, Bitcoin can make the transaction easier and ensure the risk aversion of currency exchanges, since there is no bank holiday and no need to pay transaction fees either. Bitcoin users have full controls of their own money. Therefore, its users can send or receive their money anywhere in the world anytime. Secondly, Bitcoin has few risks of a leakage of personal information. Bitcoin transaction contain sensitive information, and it can offer very secure protection of your account. Third, Bitcoin protocol is encoded and no individuals can manipulate Bitcoin. Since it is completely transparent and neutral, the users can completely trust the protocol. Therefore, these three main advantages can let people easily expand their business to new markets and stimulate the economy without any complicated transaction and the risk of an information leakage. The Bitcoin organization believes that Bitcoin can evolve our currency system for the first time after paper money was introduced. All of this can be achieved because of features. On the other hand, although Bitcoin has been made legally, Bitcoin also promotes cyber-crimes. Criminals, such as drug dealers use bitcoin for money laundering. Money laundering is a method to make illegally profited money into legal, according to his 2017 article entitled Currency: Investigative Challenges and by Nigh Brett. Since Bitcoin is transparent and criminals have no risk of an information leakage, it makes it harder for FBI to track down the crime from their money transactions. The problem is that there is almost no way to regulate this currency because again the Bitcoin protocol cannot be controlled by any organizations, but only by individual users around the world. The Bitcoin organization also states, to assign special rights to a local authority in the rules of the global Bitcoin network is not a practical (Bitcoin 1). However, there still is a solution for this problem. A compromise would be for Bitcoin to not allow transactions to be held on websites that do not succumb to FBI regulations, or licensing the use of Bitcoin. However, why do you have to care about Bitcoin? The value of one bitcoin was one dollar in 2013, and one bitcoin equals to 1177 U.S. dollars now in 2017 (Forex Trading). The value is uplifting since Bitcoin was born. According to a summary of analyst recommendations of the Forex market in 2017 Saito 3 by Bitcoin Price, Bitcoin has a strong lean towards buy. The value of Bitcoin is predicted to be higher in the future. This means that the sooner you buy Bitcoin, the higher you get profits without working as a part-time. Currently in 2017, the use of Bitcoin is not common, however, if people in the world start using Bitcoin, it will be easier for Bitcoin to be a better currency, since it is only controlled and molded by its users in the world. Right now is the time to get Bitcoin since the value of Bitcoin since it is predicted to be higher and it has been increasing. The later you exchange your currency into Bitcoin, the less you gain profits from the exchange rate. There are three more ways you can promote the use of Bitcoin, besides exchanging. Mining is a way of issuing Bitcoin, where mining uses software to solve mathematical problems of Bitcoin transactions. You can help bitcoin transactions processing by mining. If you cannot do mining, there is another way to support Bitcoin to improve. Donation is an easiest way. You can directly fund any bitcoin projects. Lastly, you can promote the use of Bitcoin by having a Bitcoin wallet to do transactions. There are several different kinds of wallet you can use to secure your Bitcoin. Buying a Bitcoin wallet indirectly promote to improve the security of Bitcoin transactions as well. Once again, it is highly recommended to exchange your currency to Bitcoin right now before the value of Bitcoin gets really high. Today is the time to evolve our currency system from paper to digital. Saito 4 Works Cited Bitcoin. Frequently Asked  FAQ - Bitcoin. Bitcoin, 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://bitcoin.org/en/faq#what-are-the-advantages-of-bitcoin>. Bitcoin Price BTC  Investing.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. European Banking Authority. Opinion on Virtual European Banking Authority. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Forex  Forex Trading Online FX Markets Currencies, Spot Metals & Futures FOREX.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Nigh, Brett, and C. Alden Pelker. Virtual Currency: Investigative Challenges and  FBI. FBI, 04 June 2013. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. <https://leb.fbi.gov/2015/september/virtual-currency- investigative-challenges-andopportunities> Steadman, Ian. The Mysterious Satoshi  New Statesman 145.5313 (2016): 17. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.