Quiroga 1 Daniela Quiroga ENC 1102 Instructor Harley Campbell 18 April 2017 Say No to Fur Wearing your favorite fur coat, or wool sweater has never created as much discussion as it does today. The creation of these clothing items is causing great harm to thousands and thousands of living creatures. Defenseless animals, such as lambs and minx, are the ones making the unwilling sacrifice every day in order for all of us to dress fashionably. If we all continue to allow these unjust acts towards animals to happen we will be embracing violence amongst living creatures. Organizations, such as PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals), work towards defending animal rights to ensure their protection and well-being. Making a contribution is just a click away nowadays due to technological advances. The community needs to log onto website to donate today, stop buying fur, and engage with active organizations to help these innocent animals have a safe, non-violent future. The first step in the right direction is to understand exactly what these animals go through day by day in order for their fur to be used. Wolves, otters, beavers, and many more are hunted down using traps. traps used cause the animals to suffer lingering and often slow painful deaths where the animal is suffering for hours and days. The most widely used trap is also the most inhumane and painful, called the steel-jaw (humane decisions). Millions of animals undergo these violent events and are left Quiroga 2 in them to die. Fur farms are not necessarily a much better option either; no type of restriction is placed on them, on fur farms live in a state of constant fear and are kept in tiny, filthy cages, deprived of the ability to express natural behavior. Moreover, no U.S. laws regulate how animals on fur farms are to be housed or (Born Free USA). According to PETA most of U.S fur imports come from China where animals are often skinned alive and even hung to death. Such cruelty and savagery can be viewed all over the internet for the common public to see for themselves and as if the horrid way of hunting these creatures down for the sake of fashion a tragedy on its own many times these traps mistakenly catch other animals such as dogs and cats, animals that the clear majority of the common public keep as pets at home. The process does not end here, the animals that die from bleeding out and the retched conditions already have reached their limit, but the ones who remain alive continue to face the dreadful skinning stage. In some cases, animals are even skinned alive, the animal is not too heavy, the worker instead holds it by its hind legs, lifts it in the air and slams its body against the ground. This gives a blow to the head but also shatters other bones, causing (Animal Rights Action). They will fight with the hope of escaping but they are forced down until their skin is removed and left to bleed to death. Once the furs are recollected and ready to be sent out, they are distributed to buyers who will incorporate them into their fashion lines and displayed on runway shows for the world to see. However, what is not on display is the barbarous experience these innocent animals had to go through and give their lives up for. Animals are being deprived of their rights because they do not have a voice to defend themselves. Quiroga 3 Animal cruelty has been around for many decades and fortunately it has sparked concern in society. The strongest, most well-known organization who advocates animal rights is PETA. This organization focuses on protecting animal lives and ensuring their safety. works through public education, cruelty investigations, research, animal rescue, legislation, special events, celebrity involvement, and protest (PETA). Their website shows different campaigns that they have developed with the purpose of putting an end to real animal fur, their most famous one called Rather go Naked than Wear Fur This campaign advertises with many musicians, actresses, entertainers, and multiple other public figures that contribute to the cause. Their many campaigns have opened the eyes of millions of people all over the world. Many fashion labels have switched from real fur to using faux (synthetic) fur as an alternative, such as Giorgio Armani and Stella McCartney. These changes have a big impact on society since it can reach so many people, especially because the designers, and workers who run brands like these heavily influence the people of today. The more supporters this cause has the greater the possibility of legislation against these cruelties can be established. The International Anti-Fur Coalition (IAFC) is an AR movement founded in 2006, their worldwide aim is to close down the fur industry, and to push towards legislation and enforced laws against the fur industry (Anti-Fur Coalition). Their website explains the easy steps in becoming a member and offers information in regards to participating in campaigns and protests against the use of real fur such as the annual Worldwide Fur Free Friday. As citizens, we all strive for a better world with a sense of morality. Allowing all these animals to be abused and neglected of their rights does not seem like the morally Quiroga 4 correct thing to be permitting. Every day thousands and thousands of animals suffer the consequences of human desires to look a certain way because considered to be in style. No animal should have to agonize for a coat, or a sweater. For reasons like these there are organizations like PETA and the Anti-Fur Coalition, to fight for those who fight for themselves. The common public of today needs to educate themselves on the current situation regarding animal abuse in the fur industry and contribute to the PETA organization to make a difference. Donating is a click away on their website, but to take an even bigger step, stop purchasing anything made with fur and get involved. Becoming active with campaigns and protests such as the ones the Anti-Fur Coalition develops, is the first step to a better society. Quiroga 5 Works Cited People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. Accessed 5 May 2017. www.peta.org/about-peta/. Born Free USA. 2003. Accessed 5 May 2017 Animal Rights Action. Accessed 5 May 2017. http://www.animal-rights-action.com/ Ugly Truth About the Fur Industry, Fur Farms, and Fur Humane Decisions. Accessed 5 May 2017. http://www.humanedecisions.com/the-ugly- truth-about-the-fur-industry-fur-farms-and-fur-trapping/ Anti-Fur Coalition. 2006. Accessed 5 May 2017. https://www.antifurcoalition.org/pages/becoming-a-member Quiroga 6