Pedone 1 Emily Pedone Professor Campbell ENC 1102 Project 3 Intermediate Draft The Advocacy of Abolishment The United States currently enforces an implied sanction of involuntary hospitalization for the mentally ill, legally known as civil commitment. Like most medical practices, it has positives and negatives. However, one group The Commission on Human Rights actively works on convincing the public to end the practice entirely, including all forms of psychiatry. The CCHR, under the organization of Scientology, pushes forward a radical agenda on ending psychiatry, which would deny millions of citizens the proper healthcare they need. The idea of civil commitment is nothing new. In fact, people have been involuntarily hospitalized in America since the 1700s 1 . It has become a psychological practice in theory, a medical emergency in implication, and a judicial controversy in legislation. Each state has its own guidelines in regards to when/how to have someone hospitalized. For instance, the State of Florida enforces the Baker Act 2 . This is implied when an individual, seen as either a threat to others and/or themselves, are allowed to be held in a psychiatric hospital for 72 hours maximum, without their own consent. Many people see it as unconstitutional. However, it remains a necessary evil to protect communities and give individuals the help they need. Some groups, such as the National Alliance on Mental Illnesses, fight to not only protect civil commitment but Pedone 2 also improve its conditions. The Citizens Commission on Human Rights lands on the complete opposite end of the spectrum. At first glance, the CCHR is another proficient human rights group that advocates for the greater good. It is a self-proclaimed health claiming no political, religious, or personal ties. 3 This is far from the truth. The root of the organization is Scientology, a religious group infamous for being referred to as a cult. Their Flagship headquarters (literally) are in downtown Clearwater, Florida. The group poses as attempting to implicate legislation to better mental health conditions. On the contrary, their bottom-line goal is to end all practices of psychology and psychiatry. Their root, simply put, is the core beliefs of Scientology. To understand the human rights crisis that the CCHR poses on mental health, it is important to first understand where Scientology stands. Scientology was founded in 1954 by science-fiction author L. Ron Hubbard. It began when he wrote the novel Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health 4 . Hubbard crafted these ideas into a Dianetics Foundation, which soon went bankrupt and caused him to lose the rights to his books. Hubbard then declared Dianetics as a religious finding, and called it Scientology 5 . It caught on quickly. People were drawn to its humanitarian aspect of pro-peace and anti-war. For many years though, it was not a recognized religion, but rather a science- fiction cult. Once Hubbard passed away, the IRS charged the organization with all of his previous tax crimes 6 . Scientology then filed over 2,000 lawsuits against the IRS, and claimed that they can all away 6 if the IRS drops the charges and officially declares Scientology a religion. And so, in 1993, the Church of Scientology was officially a recognized religion, thereby exempt from paying taxes 6 . Pedone 3 This may be seen as a victory to our country. It is an honor and privilege that Americans have the freedom to believe whatever they choose to. Unfortunately, religious status imposes massive human rights issues. As an official religion, The Church is protected under the First Amendment. Therefore, investigations into their practices are considered unconstitutional. For instance, the FBI had to drop an investigation into The Church for suspected human trafficking. 7 By Constitutional protection, the inner workings of the Church are heavily under-wraps. not to say that there is an issue with our law. In fact, Scientology as a whole is not an issue. Many of the parishioners are peaceful and friendly people who want to better society. Unfortunately, the abuse from practices of such beliefs cause many cases of injustices; one of which is regards to mental health. According to Dianetics and the basis of the religion, mental illnesses actual illnesses 4 . All of our sadness and depressions come from past lives. According to ex-members, there is a secret explanation for exactly what this means. Apparently, this knowledge is only shared once one reaches a certain level of the religion. Out of respect, however, details on such secretive information will be omitted. More or less, The Church has its own ways of dealing with negative feelings. Parishioners are not allowed to engage in psychological therapy or psychiatric medicine 8 . Instead, they go through where they recount instances that give them negative feelings until they affect them anymore. Ex-Scientologist and documentary film maker Leah Remini explained it as such, Scientologists believe in mental conditions being treated with drugs. The believe they have the answer, and so they will handle this disorder with Scientology auditing, assists, and/or vitamins. 8 Pedone 4 Some of the treatments can also do more harm than good. One in particular is referred to as the Introspection Rundown. It was created by Hubbard, and includes being locked in a room until the mental illness has passed. From the words of Hubbard himself, one must, the person wholly with all attendants completely muzzled (no then, it is obvious the person is out of his psychosis and up to the responsibility of living with others his isolation is ended. 9 Ironically, the practice of isolation is not new in regards to mental treatment. In fact, a part of involuntary hospitalization. Patients are typically placed in hospital rooms with one another, engaged in daily therapy, and disconnected from the outside world until they are better. Although not perfect, it is a far better option than Introspection Rundown, which actually encompasses all the abuses that Scientology claims to be against. Mike Rinder, a highly notable former member of the Church, has his own reasons to believe why Scientology is so against psychology: hates psychiatry so much because L. Ron Hubbard said that Scientologists should hate offered Dianetics to the American Medical Association and the American Psychiatric Association in 1950, and they laughed at him. He then determined that they were enemies of mankind. 8 Psychology the only enemy either. The organization also makes it incredibly difficult to leave, thus creating a sense of and depression for its members. Furthermore, Scientologists have a policy of 6 where they are not allowed to connect in any way with ex-friends or family members that doubt Scientology or pose a threat to the system. These people are considered Suppressive Persons, or 6 Once one is declared an SP, Scientologists are not allowed to associate with them. (In fact, just writing this critical paper Pedone 5 is high grounds for being declared an SP). It is more or less a blacklist for Church members. Not following Disconnection can lead to serious punishment. Thus, these implications tear apart beloved families and cause more emotional turmoil. All of this troubling information is a lot to take in. It is clear that these practices can cause dire mental instability, rather than cure it. But, why should anyone care? For starts, happening in our backyard. Clearwater, Florida is location to the Flagship. The Church of Scientology is downtown biggest property owner. This means that not only unethical practices happening in our neighborhood, it also means that our taxes are paying for it. Due to all the negative associations with the Church, many properties around the area are being left empty. Local businesses are either being driven out or want to be in the area. Major chain businesses also try to avoid the area in order to steer away from controversy. This leads Clearwater toward a future of economic crisis. This however was not always the case. Clearwater beach is a USA Today Top-Rated Beach 10 . It is a popular tourist destination for spring-breakers, summer homes, and even Florida locals. Yet, with all the buzzing controversy and growing knowledge of involvement in Clearwater, less and less people are willing to make the trip. Many will argue that Scientology will actually increase tourism. On the contrary, as of the 2014 American Religious Identification Survey, only 25,000 US citizens identify as a Scientologist 11 . Within that same year, the State of Florida broke a tourism record with 97.3 million tourists 12 . In comparison, the 25,000 Scientologists only make a small dent in the commerce. Clearly, location relevancy is a large issue. The Citizens Commission on Human Rights actually has its own location in Clearwater, and currently hosts a museum titled An Industry Pedone 6 of This poses a major threat to our mental health care access. The CCHR claims to work with top legislatures to pass bills related to their goals. Although psychiatry has its issues, it has also saved the lives of many individuals. If Scientology and the CCHR continue to push their agenda on the community, then our health care is at stake. Such threats call for immediate calls to action. A typical solution would be to protest downtown. However, this may have the opposite effect. Church members will view protesting as a hate crime. It automatically makes you their enemy, and instead of backing down, it is more than likely that they will stick to their beliefs stronger than ever. It also poses safety threats. Most protesters are removed with police force. The most effective ways to engage in change are to educate and to inform. Knowledge truly is power. By educating yourself on both mental illnesses and Scientology, you eliminate the threat of your rights being abolished. You will then know precisely what is happening within the large organization in your neighborhood. Furthermore, you can inform family and friends of these issues. Together, these concerns can be addressed to authorities. There is a denial of human rights happening within our own vicinity. Informing law officials and legislators can efficiently help solve the problem from the inside. Everyone has a right to proper mental health treatment. Citizens deserve to know that their psychological illnesses are indeed valid. Religious beliefs should not hold good people back from the care they deserve. All religions are deserving of equal opportunities. Everyone has a right to believe what they want. But that is no excuse to deny proper care. Through the power of education and engagement, WE can help eliminate the threats that Scientology and the CCHR pose on our beautiful city. 1730 Words Pedone 7 Works Cited 1. Testa, Megan MD and Sarah G. West MD. Commitment in the United Psychology 2010. Vol.7. Num.10. October. Pp.31 2. The Florida Legislature. The 2016 Florida Statutes. Title XXIX. Chapter 394. 394.467. 2016. Online Sunshine. ring=&URL=0300-0399/0394/Sections/0394.467.html Web. Accessed 1 May 2017. 3. Citizens Commission on Human Rights. is CCHR.com. http://www.cchr.org/about-us/what-is-cchr.html. Web. Accessed 12 April 2017. 4. Hubbard, L. Ron. Dianetics. Los Angeles, CA: American St. Hill Organization, 1950. Print. 5. Xenu.net. Brief History of the Church of Xenu.net. http://www.xenu.net/archive/infopack/8.htm Web. Accessed 12 April 2017. 6. Gibney, Alex. Going clear: Scientology and the prison of belief. N.p.: Fisher Klingenstein Films, 2015. Print. 7. Chen, Adrian. FBI Is Investigating Scientology for Human http://gawker.com/5753356/the-fbi-is-investigating-scientology-for-human- trafficking. Web. Accessed 17 April 2017. 8. Leah Remini: Scientology and the Aftermath. A&E. 29 November 2016. Television. 9. Jacobson, Jeff. Introspection Xenu.net. http://www.xenu- Web. Accessed 1 May 2017. Pedone 8 10. Bly, Laura. Beach wears crown with Usatoday.com. https://www.usatoday.com/story/travel/destinations/2013/02/15/clearwater-beach- florida-dr-beach/1921885/. 15 February 2013. Web. Accessed 1May 2017. 11. American Religious Identification Survey. 17 July 2014. Report. 12. Thalji, Jamal. broke record in 2014 with 97.3 million 16 February 2015. Tampabay.com. http://www.tampabay.com/news/politics/stateroundup/gov- scott-to-announce-2014-tourism-numbers-today-at-tampa-international/2217819 Web. Accessed 1 May 2017.