Cardoso 1 Juliana Rocha Cardoso ENC 1102 Professor Erika Staiger 30 April 2017 Global Warming Awareness The greenhouse effect is a natural phenomenon and enables human life on Earth. Part of the solar energy that comes to the planet is reflected directly back into space, reaching the top of the atmosphere - and part is absorbed by the oceans and the surface, promoting its heating. A portion of this heat is radiated back into space, but is blocked by the presence of greenhouse gases that, despite passing energy from the Sun (emitted at shorter wavelengths), are opaque to terrestrial radiation emitted in larger Wavelengths. This difference in wavelengths is due to differences in the temperatures of the Sun and the surface. Global warming is the continual increase in the temperature of the earth, produced by the gases that accumulate in the atmosphere. These gases, such as carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and others, are the factors that produce the greenhouse effect. They are produced by companies and by the high consumption of petrol and diesel vehicles. These factors can have major consequences for the population. Other consequences, such as climate change, bring losses such as flooding and drying. The fight against toxic waste and industrial waste is essential to combat global warming. Many authorities say that companies are responsible for the ill treatment of land and for environmental damage. Others, however, have a different view and believe that business is a good way to create measures to counter the consequences of global warming. Cardoso 2 When there is a balance between the incident solar energy and the energy reflected in the form of heat by the surface, the climate remains practically unchanged. However, the energy balance can be altered in several ways: (1) by the change in the amount of energy that reaches the surface; (2) by the change in the orbit or the Sun itself; (3) the change in the amount of energy that reaches the surface and is reflected back into space, due to the presence of clouds or particles in the atmosphere (also called aerosols, resulting from burnings, for example); And finally (4) thanks to the change in the amount of energy of larger wavelengths reflected back into space due to changes in the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. These changes in the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are occurring due to the unsustainable increase of the anthropogenic emissions of these gases. Greenhouse gas emissions occur practically in all human activities and sectors of the economy: in agriculture, through the preparation of land for planting and fertilizer application; In livestock, through the treatment of animal wastes and the enteric fermentation of cattle; In transportation, through the use of fossil fuels such as gasoline and natural gas; In the treatment of solid waste, by the way the waste is treated and disposed of; In forests, by deforestation and forest degradation; And in industries, by the production processes such as cement, aluminum, iron and steel, for example. Simple actions can be taken in order to help contain the global warming effects. USF students can make a difference by taking small actions such as replacing light bulb. Replace a regular, incandescent bulb with a compact fluorescent bulb (also called cold bulbs), which uses 60% less energy. The exchange will represent a reduction of almost 70 kilos per year in the emission of carbon dioxide, in addition to signifying a lower bill of Cardoso 3 light. Drive less. Walking, bicycling, share vehicles and use public transportation. USF students can save 1 kilogram of carbon dioxide for every 4 kilometers not driven. Plant a tree! A simple tree will absorb about a ton of carbon dioxide during its lifetime. By planting a tree, the planet can be preserved. Recycle more. Recycle and contribute to saving natural resources, reducing environmental degradation and generating jobs. By recycling half the household waste in a year, carbon dioxide emissions can be reduced by more than 1 ton. Use recycled paper! In addition to spending less energy to make recycled papers, it prevents deforestation. Avoid products with lots of packing. Avoiding products with lots of packing can help save more than half a ton of carbon dioxide if the person waste is reduced by 10%. Reuse products and packing. Do not buy again what can be repaired, transform and reuse. Do not throw frying oil into the sink. Only one liter of oil contaminates more than 1 million liters of water. Close the taps tightly. It may be seem hard to believe but only from the tap represents a good increase in the water consumption, making the bill higher. Take faster baths. A shower of two minutes less per day means saving up to 500 liters of water per month, which represents a decrease in the electricity and water bills and also reducing the waste of water. Use less hot water! Too much energy is spent to heat the water. Use less hot water by installing a low flow showerhead and washing clothes in cold water. Decrease kitchen gas consumption! Cover the pots when cooking. An uncovered pot takes much longer for the cook the food, consuming much more gas. Turn off electronics devices! Do not leave electronic devices in standby mode. When not in use, turn them off. The energy savings will be quite significant. Collect clothes to wash and iron! Use the washing machine only when it is completely full. Leave to switch on the iron only when you have accumulated a Cardoso 4 large number of ironing pieces. Avoid using small bags. Reuse your grocery bag, even if it is disposable. Eat more organic products! Buy as much organic food as possible. Soil from organic farming captures and stores more carbon dioxide than the soil from conventional agriculture, which is also used by many agricultural pesticides that are polluting. Avoid buying frozen. Buy fresh food instead of frozen food. The production of frozen food consumes 10 times more energy. Evaluate the impacts of your consumption! Take into consideration the environment and society in your choices of consumption. Consume only what is necessary. Reflect on your real needs and try to live with less. Try to choose products that use less electricity and that pollute less. Know and value corporate social responsibility practices. In your choices of consumption, do not just look at price and quality. Value companies by their responsibility to employees, society and the environment. Divulge Conscious Consumption. Be a militant of the cause: sensitize other consumers and disseminate information, values and practices of conscious consumption. Assemble groups to mobilize your family, friends, and close people. Every little action counts. After all, we must all recognize that we have an obligation to share this land with other living beings, an obligation that requires the reduction, by one means or another, of our demands on the natural resources led by the population. To bring about this recognition is the task of civic education in the broadest sense. Cardoso 5 Work Cited Cox, Peter M., Richard A. Betts, Chris D. Jones, Steven A. Spall, and Ian J. Totterdell. Acceleration of global warming due to carbon-cycle feedbacks in a coupled climate  Nature News. Nature Publishing Group, 09 Nov. 2000. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v408/n6809/abs/408184a0.html>. Freije A, Hussain T, Salman E. Global warming awareness among the University of Bahrain science students. Journal Of The Association Of Arab Universities For Basic & Applied Sciences [serial February 2017;22:9-16. Available from: Applied Science & Technology Source, Ipswich, MA. Accessed April 16, 2017. Karmalkar A, Bradley R. Consequences of Global Warming of 1.5 and 2 for Regional Temperature and Precipitation Changes in the Contiguous United States. Plos ONE [serial January 11, 2017;12(1):1-17. Available from: Academic Search Premier, Ipswich, MA. Accessed April 16, 2017. Peters, Glen P., Robbie M. Andrew, Tom Boden, Josep G. Canadell, Philippe Ciais, Corinne Le Gregg Marland, Michael R. Raupach, and Charlie Wilson. The challenge to keep global warming below 2  Nature News. Nature Publishing Group, 02 Dec. 2012. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.nature.com/nclimate/journal/v3/n1/abs/nclimate1783.html>.