Pina 1 Marcel Pina Ashley Tisdale Composition I 7 April 2017 Euthanasia: A Controversial Topic All Over The World Multiple views always arise when discussing ideas, emotions, and even facts, but how do you determine whether an idea is correct or incorrect? The topic of euthanasia has long been discussed among many, especially in the area of ethics, when in reality it is a completely advantageous practice. Also, as Leo Tolstoy said does not cease to be wrong because the majority share in This means that an idea, or in this case the practice of euthanasia, does not become wrong or useless just because people do not agree with it. People should be clever when taking this important decision, so they have to know when this medical practice is correct and when it is not. The three main arguments that support the fact that euthanasia should be considered as a beneficial practice are that first, God created men to be free, secondly doctors must comply with the fact that they have to help the patient to end his suffering, and finally it is important to remember that assisted suicide is not the same thing as euthanasia. Even though many claim that it is unethical due to religious reasons, the church actually contradicts itself because according to the bible, the church says that God is the only one capable of giving and taking away life. However, the church also states that God made humans capable of making their own decisions as long as the outcome is beneficial. In the case of euthanasia, it becomes completely beneficial when the doctor releases patients from the pain and agony they might be suffering. Pina 2 If by applying euthanasia patients are being released from their suffering and there are also other benefits seen economically and emotionally, why is it still considered wrongful? Economically speaking, Euthanasia can certainly be beneficial because the families can stop spending money on treatments and hospital accommodations, and it is also an emotional gain due to the fact that they can now let their loved one rest in peace. They are given mental peace, since now they know that their relative has gone to a better place, where he or she will no longer be in pain. Dr. Brian L. Mishara claims that psychological need for both honor and dignity has no time (430). Another argument favoring the practice of euthanasia is that doctors should always respect the will of the patient and they should always do what is best for them. This is mandatory for them since it is what they must take in order to be considered as doctors. The oath serves both as a promise and a tradition to remember doctors of the purpose of their job, also they must remember them that the well-being of the patient must always come first, even if a sacrifice must to be made. Through this oath the idea that taking away a life might be beneficial is presented, and one must recognize that at times, even though it is extremist, it could be the best solution towards helping someone. As Jack Kevorkian, once said: autonomy always, always should be respected, even if it is absolutely contrary the decision is contrary to best medical advice and what the physician Doctors are educated and trained to perform the best at their jobs. The arguments against this practice are that the people should not decide if they live or not, saying that they refer to the same fact of committing suicide, they compare this practice with suicide. In the society is bad seen or seen as an illegal action. Regardless doctors must do what is best for the patient they are treating, in all cases it must always remain clear that assisted suicide is not the same thing as euthanasia. In assisted suicide Pina 3 the patient asks the doctor to take away his or her life, while in euthanasia the doctor determines that ending the life of the person is the best alternative. Some doctors may take part in assisted suicides, and that may be erroneous since assisted suicides are not always done in order to obtain a beneficial outcome. However, in the case of euthanasia, it is taken as a last resort alternative when the patient is in a critical state and be brought back to life or when his or her suffering can be avoided through its practice. This can be seen from perspective when he claimed at a trial: intent was to carry out my duty as a doctor, to end their suffering. Unfortunately, that entailed, in their cases, ending of their This is why Euthanasia must not be seen as an unethical or an incorrect practice. This topic remains a very controversial one because the line between right and wrong remains unclear. If we have the right to be free, and God made us that way, then why we the ones with control of deciding whether we should live with an insufferable pain or not? If a duty is to end a agony, then why are they crucified for supporting this alternative? If society confuses assisted suicide with this practice because of ignorance, then why they try living in a world of excruciating pain, no economic resources to pay medical treatments, among other things, for a change? Pina 4 Works Cited Cohen-Almagor, Raphael. do no harm: pressing concerns regarding euthanasia in International Journal of Law and Psychiatry, 36, 2013, pp. 515-521, 29 January 2017. Monika. and the Needs of the Terminally Procedia-Social and Behavioral Sciences, 217, 2016, pp. 657-668, 29 January 2017. Mishara, Brian, Weisstub, David. and evidence in the rhetoric of assisted and International Journal of Law and Psychiatry, 36, 2013, pp. 427-435, 19 February 2017.