Bastis 1 Courtney Bastis Ms. Lay ENC 1102.006 17 April 2017 Hospice Old, drab, and alone. Unwanted, uncaring, and underappreciated. Isolation, death sentence, and forever. These are just few words that some individuals think of when they hear four words: End of Life Care. Across the nation, most individuals in this current society have an assumption or an idea of what Hospice really is and what they strive for. A stereotype associated with Hospice Care Centers within the U.S. represents a lack of knowledge and facts that are commonly known in this society (Dragolis 13). This has not been an issue in past generations, but until the turn of the twentieth century, few workers of Hospice began to work in the facilities only to rep the benefits that the older patients could provide or assist in induced death without confirmation by family members. This has obviously been controlled and slimmed down over time, to where if it would ever arise again it would be extremely rare. That aside, the millennials of this generation need to become more educated about why Hospice is a reasonable choice, in help of when the future comes they already obtain substantial knowledge about this type of care. Gaining more knowledge about this can only help the younger generation in the long run. Utilizing the available resources around them, adolescents can become more involved in how this care may be applied in the future (Chuck 1). Unaware millennials nationwide need to be educated about how Hospice Care may become the best option regarding End of Life Care for when life starts to end, by volunteering, doing research or just talking about it with their peers. Bastis 2 An issue that many Hospices nationwide face is the lack of proper knowledge that is portrayed to this current society. Lack of this proper knowledge may greatly influence the wellbeing of young adults across this current generation in the future. Society produces a failure of correct information representation which can make or break momentous decisions that could possibly have consequences as follows (Dragolis 9). Lack of representation can be seen or shown in television broadcast, social media sources or even previous bad experiences. Understandably, bad experiences within this certain branch of Health Care are not the main underlying issue. Experiences that make their way to social media have one of the strongest abilities to sway the attention of the targeted audience. A bad experience can lead to the spreading of falsely biased information that is only supported by a one sided experience. When it hits social networks, the media tends to only portray the infrequent bad news in a negligent light, while not representing the good aspects and deeds that are accomplished by Hospice Care Centers. This is one large issue that is most common amongst young adolescents and millennials in this current generation because the spreading of unwanted news has the unfortunate ability to persuade decisions that cannot be altered with social media bias (Chuck 7). It affects the decisions that they will make in the future, when adolescents are at that age of life ending and they need to evaluate the many open options that are available to them at that point. We need to become more aware about how we prepare for these key milestones in life. Without this strong foundation of knowledge, we would just be deciding on unreliable facts that could potentially not be true. Millennials should know that social media cohorts are only showing the tip of the iceberg that has much more valuable information under the surface. Young adolescents throughout this current generation Bastis 3 need to be much more aware about how a misrepresentation of information could potentially have the ability to alter their Healthcare decisions later in life. This issue puts the life at stake by misconstruing information that is served to help the person. Unaware adolescents need to be more conscious of the many factors that influence and represent the true factual information provided by Hospice facilities. A life is at stake when they analyze incorrect information about various Healthcare facilities, and choose a different care plan that is not tailored to the proper needs. An life is on the line, and with the right information and becoming more involved in a local Hospice community, that life could then be saved. One young adult can be the difference between choosing the right or wrong Health Care provider. Even just knowing one of two facts about what Hospice communities actually do can change how one, three or more individuals view and think about Hospice. One small change can become a ripple of knowledge all throughout society nationwide. If a young parent had to suddenly go into an End of Life Care plan, how would that young adult react? They would have stereotypical thoughts that are based off of misrepresented information from social media. That is most certainly not enough to make a decision of any sort for their loved one or parent. Understanding different types of information about various End of Life Care facilities should be taken seriously and be evaluated for which could possibly be the best choice for a certain individual in the up coming future. There are many ways that the young adults of this generation can get involved nationwide or locally. Kids, teens and even adults have superfluous opportunities and ways to involve and educate themselves within and around the Hospice community. Hospice Care Centers facilitate student and youth involvement to circulate information to the younger society and to institute a Bastis 4 connection between two completely different age groups (Garcia). By going to the Hospice Foundation of America website, individuals can become volunteers in a matter of minutes online. Teenagers and young adults are able to participate in a Hospice funded program that provides many different activities that are volunteers are able to serve. Volunteer opportunities include, but are not limited to, support for Hospice patients, respite and support for family members, child care assistance, and help with fundraising and administrative work. in any local neighborhood have special ways that they allow the community to connect with them (Lerry 3). Majority of all Hospice organizations that are located within the state of Florida set up a fundraiser, social function, or a type of event where everyone throughout the community has the ability to become involved. With these many diverse options, millennials have unlimited ways in figuring out how to get involved. We, millennials, are the change for the future. Educating ourselves now will save us the worries from learning it again in the future. Knowledge is power and we can control how we decide to leave this world. End of Life Care is something to understand seriously because it is our life and we are choosing how it goes (Garcia 2). If we want other individuals involved in it or not is up to us with the knowledge we have the ability to expand. We can only strengthen the knowledge we have now by getting involved with our local Hospice facilities and the National Association of Home Care and Hospice. It will help break stereotypical thoughts that society has settled over us millennials throughout the years. This issue will not resolve itself over time if we just ignore it, it will continue to build up gradually until it is at the point where all the knowledge that we know of Hospice is just based on falsified facts from rumors that have been floating throughout society. Bastis 5 Works Cited Chuck, Philip, and Natalie Fernandez. Home Senior Association of Home Care National Association of Home Care. 18 Jan. 2017. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Dragolis, Danielle. Medical, Health Care, and Home Care Vol 14, No 9. Readers Digest. 20 Oct. 2016. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Garcia, Pedro. Association for Home Care & http://www.nahc.org/about/mission-statement/. Lerry, James. Mifflin Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. 9 Apr. 2015. Web. 20 Feb. 2017.