Okpor 1 Favour Lucky Okpor Ms. Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 3 May 2017 Animal Cruelty Animals are being abused in different ways such as being kept in zoos for making profit off the tourists that comes over to watch them and animal skin is used a lot in the fashion industry to make cloths like bags and furs. What people fail to know is animals go through so much labor in different ways that includes carrying heavy materials on their back and traveling long distances. Most of the time they are being sold out by their owners to buyers that uses them for various things. Animal cruelty should be stopped and they should be given their rights as living things. To help stop animal cruelty you can go to the website of organizations that helps to fight for animals and donate through their website and you can also become a member to help create awareness of this issue. Animal cruelty laws, and more generally a broad concern about animal welfare, are both fairly recent development in Western history. For much of human history, animals have been regarded largely as the possessions of human beings, without rights of their own (Boslaugh). For instance, in the eighteenth century, the German philosopher Immanuel Kant expressed the then- mainstream opinion that animals were important only in relation to their usefulness to human beings, rather than as sentient beings deserving respect (Boslaugh). As further evidence of the increased gravity associated with committing cruel acts against animals, individual states began passing provisions that made the worst acts of animal cruelty felony-level crimes with harsher punishments (Boslaugh). In 2012, a Montana malamute breeder was sentenced to thirty years in Okpor 2 prison with twenty-five years suspended after he was convicted of more than ninety counts of animal cruelty. By early 2014, all fifty states and the District of Columbia had enacted felony legislation. At the same time, President Barack Obama signed the 2014 Farm Bill into law, which included a provision that made knowingly attending an organized animal fight a federal misdemeanor (Boslaugh). In addition, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) announced later that year that it would begin reporting animal cruelty as a Group A felony in the Uniform Crime Report in its own category, making the incidents easier to track and perpetrators easier to identify. Forms of animal cruelty can be differentiated into Active acts (for example, stabbing) versus Passive acts such as failing to provide food and Animal Sexual Abuse, 2 defined as any sexual contact between a human and any other species (Lacey Levitt). Despite the apparent linkage between offending against animals and offending against persons, few studies have examined the attributes or criminal histories of animal cruelty offenders. The sociodemographic characteristics of these offenders, including gender, race, and age have been virtually ignored use of drugs or alcohol at the time of the incident is another understudied variable (Lacey Levitt). Moreover, most studies that have examined whether individuals who offend against animals also offend against humans have relied on self-report, which may be influenced by memory deficits, mental disturbance, and/or image management factors (Lacey Levitt). Consequently, researchers have not yet teased out various aspects of between animal cruelty and interpersonal violence. It should be noted that incidents of animal cruelty are often underreported due to negative perspective of this crime and because it is often a solitary, secretive activity others may not be aware of (Lacey Levitt). Thus the prevalence of animal cruelty may be higher than existing figures suggest. For example, a sample of 267 college students, 35% of the Okpor 3 male sample reported having committed animal cruelty, with 2.4% reported having engaged in sex with an animal (Lacey Levitt). Extant research has relied on varying definitions of animal cruelty, further obscuring estimates of prevalence. As part of the National Epidemiologic Survey on Alcohol and Related Conditions, sought to quantify the scope of the animal cruelty problem through an examination of 43,093 structured psychiatric interviews of adults living in households and group settings in the United States. They found that males, African-Americans, younger persons, residents of the Western United States, and individuals with lower education and income levels were more likely to report having committed animal cruelty during their lifetimes (Lacey Levitt). Every year, thousands of animals are victims of cruelty (South University) animals behind cages, starving and dying, is an awful sight. Now imagine yourself as a human being captured and kept in a particular place for a very long time with no hopes of getting out of there any time soon. Imagine yourself being used as an object of entertainment for people to make profit out of your appearance as a living thing. The philosopher, Immanuel Kent said in his lectures on ethics: who is cruel to animals become hard also in his dealings with However true this is, it does highlight that causing suffering in general should be viewed as a bad thing, irrespective of whether we are causing the suffering of a human or an animal(Moosa). In most African countries like Nigerian animals are seen as things that just exist for human consumption and do not deserve the rights to freedom to do whatever they want just like other living things (Kingsley). As human beings we do not wish these experiences for ourselves so why not we do something to help stop this. For the act of animal cruelty to stop there are various ways to participate which includes adoption you can basically go to an animal shelter and give an animal a home and make them Okpor 4 feel loved. In addition to that after adopting the animal of your choice it is important to take the animal to a veterans to ensure that the animal is free from any diseases. Again, you can offer donation to organizations that helps to fight against animal cruelty to help build fund they could use to go and save animals going through these experiences. For example, PETA which is an organization that helps fight for animal cruelty have a donation going on you can participate in by going to their website www.PETA.com. Of course, the best way to fight cruelty is to teach as many people as possible how their pets should be treated and what they should never ever do (Josh Weiss-Roessler). Parents and educators should teach children how to safely and humanely interact with animals at an early age, as well as how they can tell if an animal is being harmed and what to do about it. You can help spread the word by utilizing your own community to do so. For instance, you can share messages about proper treatment of animals on your social networks or offer to teach a class at your local elementary school or even pre-school. Beyond this, people need to stand up for what they believe in when they witness animal cruelty and take a stand by reporting the behavior. The more often that abusive individuals are punished, the less likely others are to do the same thing (Josh Weiss-Roessler). Animal cruelty should be stopped and they should be given their rights as living things, even if they have the strength or voice for to fight for themselves we as human beings should fight for them. Although, not everyone will be in support of these but try to put yourself in the shoes of what these animals are going through and support them by donating or adopting one to help make a difference. Okpor 5 Work cited About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Levitt, Lacey, et al. Criminal Histories of a Subsample of Animal Cruelty  Aggression and Violent Behavior, vol. 30, no. U.S. Marshals Service and FBI, 01 Sept. 2016, pp. 48-58. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.avb.2016.05.002. Boslaugh, Sarah E., PhD. Animal  Salem Press Encyclopedia, September. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx?direct= true&db=ers&AN=89677516&site=eds-live. Moosa, Tauriq. Animal Captivity Big Think. The Big Think, Inc., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Oman, Kingsley. Personal interview. 15 April. 2017. Okpor 6