Pelose 1 Alyssa Pelose Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 April 30 21017 Special Needs Education What can happen to make sure special needs children get the right education? As history shows, special education has developed majorly and there are many different programs and schools that focus on special needs education. From special needs children not being able to even enroll in school, to now having schools designed just for special needs children. There are isolated special needs education programs which omit students who have special needs from being in a normal classroom. Isolated programs can cause problems for the person later in life such as dealing with their social skills and their independence. Placing a special needs child in a regular classroom, benefits the child more than placing them in an isolated program. There are some disadvantages/limitations within special needs schools and programs. Brown v. Board of Education began to show what was really going on within the school systems. This showed that special needs education needed to improve. There has been many laws that have been passed to support special needs education. For example, in 2004 the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) was passed. This states that children who have learning disabilities are allowed a higher equality of education. This act was very important and helped to improve exactly what special needs students need to succeed. It discusses what type of classroom each special needs student should be placed into. This is very important because the type of environment that the student is placed in can obviously affect the way they learn. There was also the Individual Education Plan (IEP) which was developed in 1975. This was made to make sure Pelose 2 that students with learning disabilities got the same type of education as their peers. The IEP is actually a legal document that states the education plan. It is a binding contract that discusses the goals. Many people are factored into this including, the student, parents, teachers/staff, and any doctors that are involved with the student. If any of the listed people do not follow the plan, then it can be taken to court. There was another court case which benefited special needs education. In the Timothy V. Rochester School District case, this stated that school districts must educate every child even if they have a disability (Torreno, 2012). Inclusion is something that is very beneficial to special needs students. This began in the dealing with children who have physical disabilities to be allowed to attend neighborhood schools (Torreno, 2012). Inclusion means putting special needs children in a regular classroom to participate in daily activities. This is something very important because it teaches the special needs children how to interact with other students, which is something that can help them in the future socially. Since children learn by example, inclusion is the perfect setting for that because they are mixed with regular students (Jennytyl99, 2016). The special needs children will see how the other students relate to one another and learn from that. This can help them with their social skills later in life and help them adapt to the outside world. If special needs students get a job that deals with other people in the future, then they will know how to interact and work with others from already being in that type of environment. Learning how to be independent is also another factor to consider. Placing a special needs student in an isolation program will make them rely more on the teacher for help, instead of trying to do it themselves. There is also partial inclusion which means that the special needs students are in the general classroom for some of the day, but will also be in a special education classroom throughout the other half of the day (De Vivo, 2013). This is also beneficial because while they are learning how to interact with others Pelose 3 throughout the day, they also are in an environment specifically made just for special needs children to focus on themselves. Inclusion can also help with the IEP goals too. Respect is something that is very important when dealing with special needs children. In this type of classroom, both the regular and special needs students will learn how to respect each other. In the 1900-2000 school year, the start of inclusion resulted in over 90% of special needs students receiving education in general schools. Special needs students were also included in the general classroom 80% of the day (Torreno, 2012). People may argue that self-esteem is higher in an isolated program. Special needs students already have low self esteem, and knowing that they are in a different type of program or school just makes it worse. If the student is in a special needs school, obviously there are only special needs students enrolled in that school. This can be a negative effect because the special needs students will not know how to interact with other students who do not have special needs. This may not only affect their life now, but later when they need to know how to interact with others. Special needs children all have labels, which is something that can be misinterpreted (Jenntyl99, 2016). Furthermore, it can also hurt their self esteem knowing that they are labeled as a student. Special needs students are also labeled based on what disability they have. Naturally, special needs children are going to have a low self esteem, but labeling them only makes it worse because now they know they are not like the other students. Even though labeling is important, you have to be careful because it can come off the wrong way. Special needs education is specifically made for students with special needs. Throughout the years, special needs education has been a hot topic because of the need for improvement. There are different types of resources for the student, such as programs, or a special needs school. Special needs education is something that has developed majorly over the years. Isolated Pelose 4 special education programs are popular. These are programs that only have special needs children in them, excluding them from the regular classroom. There are advantages and disadvantages for placing a student in an isolated classroom. There are more disadvantages in an isolated classroom and it can cause more problems for the student when dealing with the outside world. Pelose 5 Work cited Writer, Leaf Group. The Disadvantages of Isolated Special Education  Our Everyday Life. Our Everyday Life, 11 Nov. 2016. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. How Inclusion Can Benefit Special Needs Children  The Social Express. N.p., 09 Mar. 2014. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. History of Inclusion & Improvement in Educating Students with  Bright Hub Education. N.p., 06 June 2012. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Jenntyl99. Advantages and Disadvantages of the Special Education  Owlcation. Owlcation, 14 Dec. 2016. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Benefits of Inclusive Education. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. What Is Special  What Is Special Education? N.p