Derik Ware Karren Hanson ENC 1102 14 April 2017 Nuclear Energy for the Future the waste in a year from a nuclear power plant can be stored under a (Regan). As the demand for energy grow and the concern for the environment is considered most people turn to renewable energy sources. Yet nuclear energy can produce an abundant amount of energy along with such a minuscule amount of byproduct. Along with taking up a small amount of land. This makes nuclear energy the obvious choice for the future of the energy sector. Nuclear energy is the best option for the environment and you can help by participating with pro-nuclear organizations. Nuclear energy is the best way to immediately impact the environment in a positive manor. Over the years two types of reactors have been developed there is a boiling water reactor (BWR) and pressurized water reactor (PWR). Both use steam to spin a turbine and generate electricity. The only difference is how many layers there are to the system BWR uses the steam from the core to spin the turbine. Were the PWR uses the thermal energy of the water from the core to heat a secondary water source which boils and spins the turbine. PWR and BWR use a nearby natural water source to cool the steam. They can also use a cooling tower but is most effective when both are working together. (Nuclear Power). Nuclear energy takes up the smallest amount of land compared to a solar field, wind farm or dam. An excellent example of this is the nuclear power plant on Three Mile Island. It is one fourth of a square mile and produces 837 megawatts (MW) of electricity (Three Mile Island). Compared to the Topaz Solar farm in Ware 2 California that is nine and half square miles and produces 550 MW (Wesoff). When both Three Mile Island and Topaz solar farm are scaled to one square mile Three Mile Island would produce 3348 MW of power and Topaz solar farm would generate 57.89 MW. When looking at hydroelectric or wind power, they constantly produce energy. Although it is not as much as a nuclear reactor but more reliable that solar. One problem with wind farms is that people report that considerable noise is (Solar Vs. Wind Vs. Hydro power). Of the three most known renewable energy sources hydroelectric power is the best option, but it affects the ecosystems up and down stream. Building a dam causes a lake to be formed along with a fluctuating river. Creating two entirely different ecosystems along with removing land up stream which may cause people to lose their homes. Many people fear nuclear power because of events like Chernobyl and Fukashima disasters, both catastrophes have solid reasoning behind them. The Chernobyl disaster occurred on 28 April 1986 it was caused by a designed when Russian engineers were testing the reactors limits (Nuclear disaster at Chernobyl). The engineers removed countless safe guards and removed parts of the core lowering the power making the reaction unstable. In the end, these mistakes cost an estimated 5,000 dead and contaminated land for decades not allowing anyone to go near without a chance of radiation poisoning. This nuclear disaster was awful, but through the mistakes scientists learned how potential disasters could happen and implemented more safety measures. As for the Fukashima disaster it could have been a lot worse that it was. The unfortunate events happened when a magnitude 9.0 earthquake struck at 2:49 pm on Friday March 11 th 2011, cracking the casing where the generators were housed, causing the facility start shutting down (Fukashima Accident). While the reactors were in the process of shutting down, a tsunami landed disabling the backup generators. Inevitably causing the cores to Ware 3 overheat leading to a melting down. These are two events that happened 25 years apart from one another. Allowing the latter of the two to have a significantly smaller impact on the environment and humans living in the surrounding area. The safety measures put in place over the years allowed there to be no deaths caused by radiation from the Fukashima disaster. Although these events were terrible, Chernobyl was caused by misunderstanding and ignoring protocol of the nuclear power plant. Fukashima was caused by two natural disasters that happened to coincide, an earthquake to crack the structure housing the backup generators that assist in the plants shutdown sequence and a tsunami that short circuited the system preventing the reactors to fully cool. On the other hand, if other sources of power are put under the same conditions as the Fukashima reactors they would also have failed. For instance, if a wind farm was built where the Fukashima plant was the entire wind farm would no longer be there, this would also apply for a solar farm as well. By supporting nuclear energy you are promoting an essential part of the power grid. There are a couple ways you can support nuclear energy you can write a letter or email the congressmen of your state voicing your opinion in the energy sector. Join an organization such as Nuclear Energy Institute or Environmentalists for Nuclear Energy. With either organization, you can sign petitions, participate in rallies, and donate. You choose what is the best way for you to help the cause. Remember that it costs nothing, if you chose not to donate, to support nuclear energy and will save space, reduce the changes in ecosystems, and reduce CO2 emissions. Clearly nuclear energy is the best option for the environment. It produces significantly more power than other energy producers and has a very small amount of waste. Nuclear energy also has the best power to land ratio, meaning it produces the most amount of energy in the land it occupies. Nuclear energy also has a small amount of CO2 emissions helping reduce its effect Ware 4 on global warming. These are all sound reasons why nuclear energy should be the future of the energy sector. Ware 5 Work Cited World Nuclear Association Web. January 2017. 15 April 2017. disaster at History.com Web. 15 April 2017. How It Vattenfall Web. 10 Jan. 2013, 15 April 2017. BrainyQuote.com. Web. Xplore Inc, 15 April 2017. Vs. Wind Vs. Hydro Solar Alaska Web. Mile Exelon Web. 15 April 2017. Nuclear Power Nuclear Energy Institute Web. 15 April 2017. Wesoff, Eric the Largest Solar Plant in the World, Is Now Fully Greentech Media Web.