Campbell 1 Jason Campbell Professor Theodosiou ENC 1102.075 11 April 2017 The Dangers of Smoking Smoking has become very popular over the years as a way to relieve stress, lose weight, or seem cool because of peer pressure. No matter the reason, cigarettes are extremely dangerous, containing over 4,000 chemicals, with 51 of them being carcinogenic, or cancer causing. As a result of the Federal Cigarette and Labeling Act of 1965, the Surgeon General is required to have all cigarettes sold in the United States to be printed with the two warnings Caution: Cigarette smoking may be hazardous to your  and Warning: The Surgeon General has determined that cigarette smoking is dangerous to your  (HHS.gov). Despite the warning on all cigarettes, smoking is the leading cause of preventable death and illness in the country, as well as the leading cause for lung cancer. Smoking has been proven to be chemically addictive, and extremely difficult to quit. If you have someone close to you that currently smokes, your help can be what pushes them to quit. There are a series of resources to help them through the process such as nicotine replacement therapy, developing a quit plan, and group counseling for the friends and families of at risk smokers. Smoking has been proved to increase the risk of heart disease, lung cancer, and disease as well as other illnesses. Female smokers also have a higher propensity for miscarriages, underweight babies, and osteoporosis (Sopori 1). After passing the labeling act decades ago, the smoking rate among adults in the country has dropped drastically from 42.4% in 1965 to 24.6 percent (CDC). Although there has been a great change in the smoking population, smoking Campbell 2 results in roughly 430,000 premature deaths each year in the United States alone. Cigarettes contain a variety of chemicals, none of which should be in a human body. The most known are nicotine found in bug sprays, arsenic found in rat poison, carbon monoxide which is found in car exhausts, and ammonia which can be found in most cleaning supplies (Kozlowski). The carbon monoxide in cigarettes in the smoke enters and stays in the smokers blood stream which reduces the amount of oxygen flowing into their heart, and narrows the walls of the arteries. With less oxygen flowing through the arteries, more strain is put on the heart which in turn raises blood pressure. Nicotine in cigarettes is highly addictive, forms a dependency on cigarettes in smokers, and is toxic enough to kill a person with one drop of the pure substance(The Dangers of Smoking Cigarette for Smokers). The American Psychiatric Association (APA) has two different classifications involving nicotine: nicotine dependence, and nicotine withdrawal. The Fagerstrom Test for Nicotine Dependence (FTND) is designed to accurately and effective measure an individuals dependence on nicotine. It is composed of six questions that evaluate an individuals cigarette consumption, compulsion to use, dependence, and is able to measure a ability to quit smoking from their answers to the questions (NIDA). Some of the withdrawal symptoms listed by the APA are nicotine cravings, irritability, and decreased heart rate. Recent studies are also leading to the belief that withdrawal can lead to insomnia, impatience, and disrupted sleep can be attributed to this withdrawal (NIDA). Smoking has been proven to heavily damage our bodies over the years. Lung cancer is one of the most common consequences of smoking, and claims over 150,000 lives each year (CDC). Why let yourself or someone close to you fall victim to the statistic? Throat cancer is also prevalent among smokers, and in most circumstances requires surgery to remove the cancer, and in some cases also requires the removal of the voice box. After a throat surgery, an Campbell 3 individual is required to have a breathing stoma. A stoma is . . . a hole (opening) made in the skin in front of your neck to allow you to breathe. It is at the base of your neck. Through this hole, air enters and leaves your windpipe (trachea) and  (Cancer Research UK). This hole can either be temporary (a tracheostomy), or permanent (a laryngectomy). If an individual has surgery to repair the voice box, then the stoma is kept until the voice box heals, and afterwards the tube keeping it open is removed and the gaping hole in the persons neck slowly heals, leaving behind a gruesome scar. In more serious cases when the voice box has to be removed, a permanent stoma is given to the individual because the connection to the windpipe and mouth has been severed. The CDC runs the tobacco education campaign Tips From a Former . One of the most is the story of a 46 year old man named Shawn. When he was fourteen years old, Shawn decided to start smoking his cigarettes to fit in with friends at a new school. He continued smoking from then, and over thirty years later, cigarettes were drastically affecting his body. When he was around 44 years old, Shawns chronic cough and laryngitis was revealed to be lung cancer. After almost 40 radiation treatments, and countless trips to the doctor, his cancer went away, but cost him his larynx. Shawn had to get his larynx removed, and now has a stoma to let him breathe, and an implant to enable him to speak (CDC). Would you want this to happen to yourself? Your brother? Your sister? Shawn made the decision to quit too late. Shawn waited until it was too long for him to quit, let yourself or someone you love make the same mistake. Smokefree.gov is a great resource to start the quitting process. There is a variety of resources to make the process more achievable. The first step all individuals looking to quit should take is formulating a quit plan. The first part of the quit plan is setting a date. Having a set Campbell 4 date to start quitting increases the sense of urgency in an individual. After selecting a date, a smoker will need to set rewards for themselves at the 24 hours, week, and month being smoke free, as well as plan specific activities to keep themselves occupied. The next steps for the quit plan is to define the reasons for quitting, smoking triggers, and having ways planned out to fight cravings. Being prepared to combat these cravings is crucial during the withdrawal phase to prevent a relapse. The last two steps for developing a quit plan is to eliminate all smoking reminders; and lastly, to find a support system. Smokefree provides a 24 hour text program for guidance, quitlines, and nicotine replacement therapy. For non-smokers, an individual can donate to cancer society to help fund the research that goes into treating one of the most common results of smoking. The biggest organizations are the American Association for Cancer Research (AACR) and American Cancer Society (ACS). Non smokers can also fill the vital role as a support system for a smoker in their life. The quitting journey is extremely difficult, but becomes easier with the support of loved ones. The majority of smokers who have quit relapse because they have someone in their life to support them. You have the potential to save life with your support. To conclude, smoking is currently the leading cause of preventable and illness in the United States, but the smoker population has gradually declined over the decades. Public awareness of the dangers of smoking are becoming more known due to the labeling of the Surgeon General, and research has been able to successfully analyze and conclude on more effects of cigarettes. Armed with this knowledge, you can influence someones decision to quit smoking, or quit smoking yourself. The quitting process is difficult, but can be made easy through counseling, therapy, and support. Campbell 5 Works Cited Cancer Research UK. CancerresearchUK.gov http://www.cancerresearchuk.org/about-cancer/mouth-cancer/living-with/having- breathing-stoma. Accessed 14, April 2017. Center for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC.gov, Accessed 14, April 2017. Instrument: Fagerstrom Test For Nicotine Dependence  National Institute on Drug Abuse Common Data Elements (NIDA). National Institute on Drug Abuse, n.d. Key Statistics for Lung  American Cancer Society. American Cancer Society, n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Kozlowski, Lynn. Nicotine Addiction and its  Ear, Nose & Throat69.11 (n.d.): 763-65. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Sopori, Mohan. Nature Reviews  Nature Review Immunology 2 (2002): 372 -77. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. The Dangers of Smoking Cigarette for  Health Literacy. World Education. Health Literacy. World Education, n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017 United States Department of Health and Human Services. HHS.gov, https://www.hhs.gov/about/agencies/hhs-agencies-and-offices/index.html. Accessed 14, April 2017.