Blondino-Pine 1 Sarah Blondino-Pine Professor Campbell English 1102 04 May 2017 Animal Liberation Animals dedicate their lives to pleasing their owners. Their only goal is to be a companion that you can count on and to love you unconditionally. They live for our approval and strive to be the best pet they can, so why do humans abuse animals both physically and mentally? We are a superior species and because of that anything inferior to us in some mind become objects. That is the root cause that makes certain individuals think they can take their anger out on animals. Every form of animal abuse needs to end but it is much easier said than done. Approximately 7.6 million animals enter an animal shelter each year and nearly three million never make it out (ASPCA). There have been animal activists for many years that contribute their time and money to making people aware of how often animal abuse happens and how serious it is. However, the abuse still occurs daily which is something that a new type of organization needs to be created for. To put an end to these animals suffering there needs to be collaboration with police officers and the calls that they receive for animal abuse. In doing so, the organization can go with the police to a reported call and rescue the animal(s) while the police do the legal handling of the owner(s). For this to work, I believe that we need to nationally incorporate this organization starting small in each county in Florida. The reason I propose to have a chapter of the organization set up in each county is because there are too many abused and abandoned animals in each state to take care of it any other way. With the number of animals being brought into shelters and the amount Blondino-Pine 2 that are still left out on the streets, the incorporation of another organization will only help the process of rescuing them. The non-profit organization H.A.L.O. is a good representation of starting in one county and building from there because of the amo9unt of success that they have had. The only difference is that their focus is NO KILL safe haven for abused and abandoned which is the type of place the organization would take the animals to after rescuing them (halorescuefl.org). How this would work is that each organization set up in the different counties across Florida would coordinate with any no-kill shelter that can take in the animals that have been rescued and get them adopted. Another resource we would coordinate with are the local police because of the instance that someone might get violent or need to be arrested for the abuse of their animal(s). Teaming up with police will not only give the organization credibility but will also help make a bigger impact on the number of rescues by using the calls they get about abuse. It will also ensure the safety of the rescuer from any potential harm they may face in the process. The organization as a whole is going to take a lot of time, money, and effort but there are so many benefits to it. The main benefit being that it will help to save the lives and happiness of many miserable animals that deserve so much more than the way their owners treat them. Not only will it benefit the animals, but it will also benefit the community in a variety of ways. Many shelters have been experiencing an overwhelming intake rate which is making it increasingly more difficult to adopt out the animals they have (ASPCA). With the addition of this organization, the rate of euthanizing animals that shelters can no longer take care of will dramatically decrease. Not only that, but the number of animals being adopted will sky rocket because there will be more places to keep them so time will no longer be an issue. By rescuing the animals that have been uncared for we have the opportunity to give someone else in the Blondino-Pine 3 community a companion for life. This will also benefit the no-kill shelters that we coordinate with because they will be included in all the advertisements and the website that would be created. As for the police stations that we coordinate with, they will be able to stop and arrest even more people participating in animal cruelty. Which in turn will benefit the Uniform Crime Report data on animal cruelty. adding animal cruelty offenses to NIBRS, law enforcement agencies and the advocacy groups that pushed for the inclusion in the FBI database are hoping the results will reveal a more complete picture of the nature of cruelty to (fbi.gov). It is so important that protection over animals that are helpless to stopping the abuse get the care they need and deserve. century English philosopher Jeremy Bentham had placed animals within his utilitarian calculus of pleasure and pain, stating, Question is not, Can they reason? Nor Can they talk? but, Can they said David Walls (Animal Rights Movement). If an animal can feel happiness, stress, enjoyment, and sadness then they have more than the capability to suffer just as much as humans do. With that, the goal of this organization will be to help the animals on this planet, that feel the same things we do, to get out of the toxic environment they are in and be rehabilitated into a loving forever home. They will no longer suffer the torture of not eating and being beaten that they once bared. On top of that, another goal is to further bring awareness to the issue by providing the Uniform Crime Rate with even more data on animal cruelty. Therefore, the organization will stand by the belief of the Animal Legal Defense Fund that animals have be free from exploitation, cruelty, neglect, and (aldf.org). With the help of the police and no-kill shelters, the organization will rescue thousands of precious lives. We may not have the capability of lowering animal abuse rates but we do have Blondino-Pine 4 the capability of rescuing those that are reported and helping them with the transition into a happy home for life. matter what the nature of the being, the principle of equality requires that its suffering be counted equally with the like Peter Singer in the Animal Liberation Movement (Singer, page four). Helping to end the indescribable cruelty that animals all over go through is an incentive for people to come together to give these animals healthier lives and living conditions. Although the organization is not established yet, I am positive that there are people out there willing to help make it happen. Every animal deserves the same right as humans, to feel safe in the home that they live in. For this to happen, your help is needed. Being a part of the organization is not the only way that you can take action. There are many ways that you can save the life of an animal in need of your help. Go and adopt an animal from a local shelter, make a call to 1(800)-78-CRIME to report animal abuse, or even sign the Animal Legal Defense Fund (One Green Planet). Save a life, these animals need you. Blondino-Pine 5 Works Cited Helping Animals Live and Overcome, Halo Rescue, www.halorescuefl.org/. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. Animal FBI, FBI, 9 Feb. 2017, www.fbi.gov/news/stories/-tracking-animal- cruelty. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. Animal Law Resource Animal Legal Defense Fund, aldf.org/resources/laws- cases/navs-animal-law-resource-center/?gclid=CLbJi6zzvdMCFdQ6gQodgCoJOQ. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Walls, David. Rights Sonoma State University, 9 Nov. 2014, www.sonoma.edu/users/w/wallsd/animal-rights-movement.shtml Singer, Peter. Animal Liberation Nwveg.com, 1985, ASPCA, www.aspca.org/animal-homelessness. Accessed 26 Apr. 2017. Intake and ASPCA, www.aspca.org/animal-homelessness/shelter-intake- and-surrender. Accessed 26 Apr. 2017. Animal Cruelty Reporting Hotlines You Should Have in Your One Green Planet, www.onegreenplanet.org/animalsandnature/animal-cruelty-reporting-hotlines-you- should-have-in-your-phone/. Accessed 26 Apr. 2017.