Katherine Roeder Final Draft E. Smith 04-30-2017 Deep Brain Stimulation helping Disease The testing of Deep Brain Stimulation effects on Disease (PD) have been going on since the early 2000s. disease is described by James Parkinson as tremulous It normally occurs if someone is fifty or older, and has had polio, which causes temporary or permanent paralysis. disease is described by James Parkinson as tremulous It normally occurs if someone is fifty or older, and has had polio, which causes temporary or permanent paralysis. The Deep Brain Stimulation works by implanting a lead bar that transmits voltages that take over the tremor. The voltages history is then stored in REDCap, or Research Electronic Data Capture, which helps the implant track old patterns in order to create new ones. The implant is surgically put in at the back of the head and besides a small scar there is no other signs of the surgery. This procedure is constantly being perfected. Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) has been proven by a multitude of tests and experiments to be the most effective way to treat the tremor effects of Disease. One of the first tests preformed was the hand-eye coordination experiment, this shows research on the control patients have while undergoing Deep Brain Stimulation. Patients are set up in a chair with their arms laying on the rests, and only using wrist and hand movements they must follow lines or patterns given on the screen in front of them. The point of the research is to improve the voltages conducted to give the movements a more smooth feel. With the new research being done the effectiveness of the voltages can be better observed, and with that Roeder 1 Roeder 2 they can also be better maintained. Although after an about a decade researchers concluded that the brain could be more reliant on the voltages the implant produces. That causes issues because eventually the implant needs to be removed and the patients could have severe tremors afterwards. But patients claim that the voltages feel best after the test adjusts it. The next test that was performed was the Deep Brain Stimulation effects on Rapid Eye Movement sleep (REM). Rapid eye movement sleep is the most active sleep you can get a night, it occurs 4-8 times normally while getting eight hours of sleep. REM cycle sleep is also the deepest sleep you can get all night. The study had a small test group, over the age of 50 with Disease. All undergoing Deep Brain Stimulation, it used a sleep study to observe the rapid eye movement (REM) sleep cycles. Ann Neurol wrote demonstrated a near doubling of nocturnal REM sleep between the Deep Brain Stimulation and Deep Brain Stimulation states, without significant changes in other sleep (2009) meaning that DBS highly effects the sleep of the patients. The purpose of the study is to connect DBS treatments to REM cycle patterns, which control brain maturity, homeostasis, learning and emotions, all which could significantly alter someones daily life, if DBS changes one or more of those things. These researchers believe DBS significantly changes the REM cycle sleep the patients are having. Concluding that DBS could also be modifying learning, alertness and emotions in a negative or positive way, it depends on the person. The last test shows the perspective of the patients in the process of deep brain stimulation. In most cases when deep brain stimulation is used, the patients choose how aggressive the treatment is. They can choose this by selecting a higher voltage and the implant will then send stronger signals out to the brain, which stops or lessens the tremor. When patients use a progressive process it decreases the odds that the brain will be strictly reliant on the implant. A majority of the patients picked the most aggressive process but other articles prove that picking that approach can produce multiple negative or harmful side effects later in their life. Doctors strongly recommend the lighter approaches should be the first options, and then inspect if the tremor is life threatening, or bad enough that patients are unable to do anything on their own, to then look into the harsher voltage settings. This would also lessen the amount of people with negative backlash after the implant is removed. Besides the implant taking a longer period to train the brain, there are no negative side effects to the slowest and steadiest voltage patterns. These tests prove that Deep Brain Stimulation is an effective treatment for PD, but certain tests also mention that Deep Brain Stimulation could cause emotional and learning disabilities. The largest claim against DBS is that the brain is will become more reliant on the implant, then when the implant is removed the brain could even be worse then before. The implant must be removed, the longest the implant can safely be in the head is two decades. If the implant is too aggressive the brain can easily be trained to stop the natural response of sending voltages by itself, this is because if it senses something else doing the work more efficiently than it does, it will stop working on its own to focus on another issue that the natural body has. This is also why doctors recommend using a steady approach and letting the brain get adjusted to the implant before it just takes over the natural process. This could relive the migraine and other minor effects patients can sometimes have. After reviewing the results of the tests preformed on Deep Brain Stimulation in relation to Disease, strongly recommended. The tests prove to be helpful, detailed and still being perfected to this day. Taking into consideration the faults in the testing, most of it is controlled by patient and doctor. Every aspect of this process is controlled by the doctor and patient, and can take as long as the patient needs. Roeder 3 Roeder 4 Resources 1. Dewey, R. B., P. E., Sanghera, M., Patel, N., Khemani, P., Lacritz, L. H., . . Dewey, R. B. (2016). Developing a Deep Brain Stimulation Neuromodulation Network for Parkinson Disease, Essential Tremor, and Dystonia: Report of a Quality Improvement Project. Plos One, 11(10). doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0164154 2. Feldman, D. A., Pulliam, C. L., Urrea Mendoza, E., Gartner, M., Giuffrida, J. P., Montgomery, E. B., Jr., . . . Revilla, F. J. (2016). Computer-Guided Deep Brain Stimulation Programming for Disease. Neuromodulation, 19(2), 127-132. Retrieved February 05, 2017, from http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=471d5e04- cfb8- 4f7e-8d45-07e046b6bc8f%40sessionmgr4010&vid=0&hid=4108&bdata=Jn NpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#AN=113138318&db=aph 3. Levy-Tzedek, S., Krebs, H. I., Shils, J. L., Apetauerova, D., & Arle, J. E. (2007). disease: a motor control study using a wrist robot. Advanced Robotics, 21(10), 1201-1213. doi 10.1163/ 156855307781389383 4. Lim, A. S., Moro, E., Lozano, A. M., Hamani, C., Dostrovsky, J. O., Hutchison, W. D., . . . Murray, B. J. (2009). Selective enhancement of rapid eye movement sleep by deep brain stimulation of the human pons. Annals of Neurology, 66(1), 110-114. doi:10.1002/ana. 21631 Roeder 5