Akhsambiyev 1 Askar Akhsambiyev Ashely Tisdale Composition I 9 April 2017 Pharmaceuticals Impact On People In The 21st Century In the year 2009 there were more people killed by pharmaceuticals in comparison to car accidents.(Paula Tironi) There are several issues society has that relate to this topic. First one of them is that people are getting addicted to different types of drugs, no matter if they are prescribed or not. The addiction happens because pills are getting stronger and most of them include some components which lead to addiction. This type of addiction is different from cigarettes and alcohol, because people are getting addicted by using pharmaceuticals just a few times. That means their body gets used to feeling better after taking a dose but afterwards their body feels unenergetic and they start to feel more pain. Should pharmaceuticals companies reduce the level of pharmaceutical addiction and the market value, should companies produce less complicated pills but with the similar effect? Most of the people nowadays use pharmaceuticals for different reasons. There are thousands of different type of medicine produced these days. Pain killers are very common pharmaceuticals which people purchase on the daily basis. Throughout the history of mankind, both scientists and doctors have searched for a resources that can conquer pain. Opium was the first strong painkiller and is still used in twenty first century in hospitals. Opium or as it sometimes also called mandrake is a strong substance and is not used in case of headaches or stomach-aches, but sometimes people feel such a pulsating, tearing continuous pain so they need to get something really relaxing and strong to get rid of it. Opium was not always used for medicine only, in 18th century people in India and China used it as an intoxicant and it had a widespread. British and Americans understood the impact it has on people and made big profits. For those who are unsure, opium is made out of dried juice of immature heads of sleeping plants- poppies, yes a red flower that can be found in the park next to house. After some countries like China tried to declare smoking illegal drugs, as it had a terrible impact on some people. There were several wars that were just because of opium, and they were called logically too- opium wars. Scientists meantime did not give up on this substance, and tried to get opioids on the base of opium. A young scientist than singled out white crystals from opium alkaloids and called them morphine in honour of the dream god Morpheus. After the invention of syringe and appearance of morphine it gave doctors powerful remedy against pain, but the new issue occurred, the addiction to morphine was even faster than to opium and scientists throughout the world faced the new problem. The social insurance change law builds up a condensed licensure pathway for the licensure of take after on natural items classified as biosimilar or compatible, to items with current licenses. It additionally puts forward selectiveness periods for pioneer and take after on biologics. Approval for the US Food and Drug Administration to make another administrative pathway for biosimilars will broadly affect industry exercises for both trend-setter and take after on natural items, while all the while making a level of vulnerability with respect to the particular structure that the FDA will actualize for biosimilars. While the medicinal services change law does not talk about the condensed licensure pathway in detail, the arrangements with respect to eliteness periods are much clearer. The law awards 12 years of eliteness to the pioneer makers of the reference, natural items. Applications for the biosimilar item, be that as it may, might be submitted to the FDA as ahead of schedule as four years from the date of the reference item Biologics License Application (BLA) endorsement. The four and 12 year time frames can be stretched out by an extra six months for pediatric reviews that are asked for by the FDA. The law tries to point of confinement potential methods for augmenting the restrictiveness time frame by noticing that most supplemental filings, for instance: new dose shape, new course of organization, do not justify a different 12 year selectiveness period. The social insurance change law likewise accommodates eliteness for the primary take after on organic item for a period that extents from one year to 42 months, contingent upon various elements put forward in the law. Concluding this paper, there is probably an extent, until which people should use pharmaceuticals in the correct way and in the correct dosage. Sometimes there is no other way than using a strong pill, but people should not abuse this clear kind of pharmaceuticals that are in hospitals today. Different things help society to increase health level, to reduce pain or even sometimes to stay alive. There is a huge misunderstanding going at the moment , teenagers see that same drugs their friends had yesterday are used in medicine, so there is a thought that this is definitely not dangerous , that is even healthy as it is used in medicine. It is dangerous to buy and use drugs from outside which are sold illegally as drug dealers to make more profit mix a clear component which is used in medicine with other dirty admixtures, and the whole products are made in poor conditions for such a nest thing as pharmaceuticals. Our society should not forget why people who use strong and clear drugs in hospitals for several weeks and months do not come out and wait for another dosage but from the dealers this time. It happens because people come from a completely boring and melancholic environment which is hospital, to a family and back to home. Narcotism is not a psychological addiction to a drug, it is a state of mind. It is hard to change the impact on society today, as it would be impossible to co-operate in hospitals and drug stores without some of the pharmaceuticals, it would be much easier to talk about it with kids and teenagers, so when this kids become a grown adult would have a good understanding of things. There are many different problems occurring because people are unsure or unaware. Teenagers do drugs because in their mind it is healthy as used in medicine, some adults do not want to be treated with some of the strong pharmaceuticals as their opinion is the other way round. Works cited Barkla, Xanthe M., Paul A. McArdle, and Dorothy Newbury-Birch. Are There Any Potentially Dangerous Pharmacological Effects Of Combining ADHD Medication With Alcohol And Drugs Of Abuse? A Systematic Review Of The  BMC Psychiatry 15.(2015): 1-5. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Challenges In The Pharmaceutical  Pharmaceuticals Policy & Law 14.2-4 (2012): 123-127. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Joo-Young Lee and Paul Hunt. Human Rights Responsibilities Of Pharmaceutical Companies In Relation To Access To  Journal Of Law, Medicine & Ethics 40.2 (2012): 220-233. Education Source. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Park, S. Sandra. A bang or a whimper? the impact of the health care reform law on the pharmaceutical industry: manufacturers should stay ahead of changes to stay competitive and  Journal of Health Care Compliance 2010: 51. Academic OneFile. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Tironi, Paula. Pharmaceutical Pricing: A Review Of Proposals To Improve Access And Affordability Of Prescription  Annals Of Health Law 19.(2010): 311. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Albsoul-Younes, Abla, et al. Abuse And Misuse Of Prescription And Nonprescription Drugs Sold In Community Pharmacies In  Substance Use & Misuse 45.9 (2010): 1319-1329. SPORTDiscus. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. !