Vonhof 1 Cameron Vonhof Professor Uddin Comp. 1 4-6-17 Scholars Views on the Effects of Violent Video Games Over Time Technology keeps improving, graphics are getting clearer, and video games are becoming more violent with each new edition. Over the years, one of the most popular genres has always been war and fighting. For example, in the it was Street Fighter and Resident Evil, then in the games evolved into Grand Theft Auto and early Call of Duty. Now, in the half the video games people utilize are violent. At first it was just shooting at targets that resembled humans, but now video games today look as lifelike as their cinematic counterpart. The targets now have more realistic human characteristics and mannerisms. With all the improvements, it seems as if video games are exceptional simulations of real war. If the teens of this generation are experiencing these realistic simulations, some scholars say it cannot be healthy for their brains. When the video game ends and the replication is over, the kids may still feel the same violent urges in the real world. However, the larger number of scholars says there is no lasting effect of playing violent video games. In the scholars believed that violence in video games could lead to aggression in teens, however, in more recent scholars have come together to agree that there is no correlation. To begin, studies between 2000 and 2010 believe that violence in video games lead to aggression in teens. According to Steven Kirsh, a psychologist at Geneseo, a 2001 analysis suggests that violent video games, in fact, do influence aggressive behavior, aggressive Vonhof 2 affects, aggressive cognition, and physiological (9). This means that scholars in 2001 believed that video games with violence had many detrimental side effects to teens that played them. Kirsh tells us appears that the effects of violent video games should have their greatest impact during early adolescence. Although research has assessed video game violence during different developmental periods, currently there are not enough studies to evaluate the influence of violent video games across (9). This means that younger teens are more susceptible to lasting effects of too much violence in video games, however, the effect these video games have on development is still unknown. In 2009, Cheryl Olsen created a study to find out if there is a possible relationship between adolescent aggression and Mature-rated (M- rated) video games. According to Olsen, this study found significant relationships between M- rated electronic game play and routine engagement in bullying behaviors and physical aggression in a diverse sample of young adolescent game (194). This explains that there is a correlation between young teens playing video games and developing aggressive behavior. Olsen even went onto find out that odds of engaging in these behaviors increased with the relative of M-rated game (194). There is looking like a strong relationship between the violence witnessed and aggression in behavior, however, correlation does not mean causation. Moving on, studies between 2010 and now (2017) believe that violence in video games do not cause aggression in teens. Julia Kneer tested the mood of subjects after they played a video game where they were a first-person shooter. There were two different variables in the study, displayed violence and difficulty (5). Kneer writes the difficulty nor the displayed violence had an effect on psychophysiological arousal during play, post-game aggressive cognitions, nor aggressive (5). This study, from 2017, completely Vonhof 3 disproved any claims made by scientists before it who assumed that since there was a correlation there was also causation. Kneer would even go onto find out that the game play difficulty has more effect on emotions after playing (5). Most experimental studies involving violent video games (VVGs) have been done with college students and give varying results. Christopher Ferguson created a study that only tested children between twelve and eighteen years of age (2). According to Ferguson, levels neither decreased nor increased following violent game play. VVG exposure increased stress, but only for (2). This study, also from 2017, further adds to the evidence that video game violence has no effect on teens aggressiveness. In conclusion, in the scholars believed that violence in video games could lead to aggression in teens, however, in more recent scholars have come together to agree that there is no correlation. In the Scholars like Steven Kirsh and Cheryl Olsen looked at and found relationships between video games and aggression. The problem is they never performed an experiment. In contrast, they just observed connections and assumed there was a causation. However, the link was disproven by studies made as recently as 2017 by scholars Julia Kneer and Christopher Ferguson. Instead of just observing, they could test the amount of aggression along with stress and hostility levels. Because of this, the more recent studies are more trustworthy and the data that is now accepted by all scholars. Ferguson said it best, levels neither decreased nor increased following violent game (2). If violence in video games does not cause aggression in teens, then can their cinema counterparts? Vonhof 4 Ferguson, Christopher J., et al. Violent Video Games Increase Hostility In Teens, But They Do Stress Girls  Psychiatric Quarterly 1 (2016): 49. Academic OneFile. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Kirsh, Steven J. The Effects of Violent Video Games on Adolescents. The Overlooked Influence of  Aggression and Violent Behavior, vol. 8, 01 Jan. 2003, pp. 377-389 Julia Kneer, Malte Elson, and Florian Knapp. Fight Fire With Rainbows: The Effects Of Displayed Violence, Difficulty, And Performance In Digital Games On Affect, Aggression, And Physiological  Computers In Human Behavior 54.(2016): 142 148. Education Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Olson, Cheryl K.1, et al. M-Rated Video Games and Aggressive or Problem Behavior among Young  Applied Developmental Science, vol. 13, no. 4, Oct. 2009, pp. 188- 198. EBSCOhost,