LI 1 Haoxuan Li Ashely Tisdale Composition l 30 April 2017 Culture Shock and Adaptation Nowadays, more and more people choose to study abroad. As a result, culture shock has moved to the forefront of the mind. Culture shock is defined as the feeling of disorientation experienced by someone who is suddenly subjected to an unfamiliar culture, way of life, or set of attitudes. In article, there is an example about a feeling: it is difficult to live here. Keeping your identity is difficult, naturally you will be attracted towards that, but it is not my culture. Religion teaches us to stay away from those things, but it is (205).The feeling when we go through culture shock just like having an asthma attack but people can only tell students to relax. As a major mental and physical problem of international students, culture shock has been focused and studied for several decades. In order to overcome culture shock, international students not only need to be aware of the effects of region of origins, their relationships with host/home-country students, motivations and goals, but also know how to take advantage of those factors. During the 2000s, researchers have found out international region of origins may greatly influence their adaptation. It can be understood as the differences between two cultures stunted adaptation. life style, common sense, way of thinking and so on, are formed by home-culture environment. When they go to study abroad, they not only need LI 2 to make good grades but also form new lives. If a home and host culture are similar, he will have much less pressure. According to Glass, from Eastern/Southeastern Asia reported significantly more inter/intrapersonal leisure constraints than students from Southern Asia and the Middle East/North (111). Eastern/Southeastern Asia have a more developed society and better education system than Southern Asia and the Middle East, so the students who come from the former origins are likely to have a higher education and be more open-minded which will help students adjust to a new culture. On the other hand, if a student can take advantage of his home culture, he may find it easier to adjust to the new environment. Since every culture is unique and has its own strengths, students who can take advantage of it will be more attractive and confident. Students should try to present those special characters in order to reduce the pressures and get more social supports, such as friendships. more, students can keep their culture identity by doing this and they are less likely to get lost during the adaptation. Another factor which greatly affects adaptation is relationships. As an essential part of students daily lives, relationships not only stand for friends or partners but social supports that they can rely on. But sometimes relationships will bring negative effects to adaptation. leisure constraints were positively associated with socializing with co- national peers and negatively associated with socializing with host national (Glass 111). Too many interpersonal relationships with home-country persons are a barrier for adaptation. If a student devotes too much time to make home-country friendships, he is likely to have a hard time going through culture shock because he still lives with his own culture and has done nothing to adjust to the new culture. Recreation participations are the outcome of relationships and they can promote each other. Participating in leisure activities not only helps students reduce stress LI 3 but also give them confidence so that they are able to make more friends. But international students do not participate in such activities. As a result, they miss the opportunity to make friends and relax. of leisure and relaxation could inadvertently exacerbate a sense of loneliness or depression, increase stress, and hinder the formation of supportive social (Glass 106). Personal characteristics also play an important role in adaptation. First, motivation is the decisive factor for adaptation. It decides mental state and attitude, more, motivation is a strong support when a student feels depression or confused. more autonomous international students felt in their decision to study abroad, the more likely it was that they would be happier, healthier, and more successful during their 433). Students will have clear goals and positive attitude if they have high level of autonomous motivation. Second, goals will have a side effect on reducing social difficulties which means unreasonable goals may make students feel upset or depressed. For example, if a student plans to overcome culture shock within one week but he fails to do it, he may feel depressed and unconfident; those bad emotions will make it harder for student to adapt to the new environment. the higher the importance of the preservation goals the less successful, happy, and healthy are the students at different times of their academic (Chirkov, 433). So students need to know their abilities and make reasonable goals so that they will not feel disappointed in their selves. In the early 2000s, researchers widely believed that gender was an important factor which would greatly influence the adaptation. It also made sense to us because male and female have so many differences. But as research continued, they found out it was wrong. in these early studies were disadvantaged from the outset; they were less educated and had fewer LI 4 professional 25). According to Brisset, has no effect on overcoming culture shock It was an important result which uncovered the truth and stopped other researchers making more mistakes. In conclusion, for overcoming culture shock, students should try to take advantage of their home culture and actively develop relationships with international students. It is also necessary to have autonomous motivation and appropriate goals for guidance. In addition, a region of origin decides his thinking model and standards of behavior, relationship greatly influences the progress of adaptation because it can offer students social supports. Motivations and goals are vital for students, they can encourage and guide students. LI 5 Works Cited Brisset, Camille, et al. Psychological And Sociocultural Adaptation Of University Students In France: The Case Of Vietnamese International  International Journal Of Intercultural Relations 34.(2010): 413-426. ScienceDirect. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Chirkov, V.I., et al. Further Examining The Role Motivation To Study Abroad Plays In The Adaptation Of International Students In  International Journal Of Intercultural Relations 32.(2008): 427-440. ScienceDirect. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Glass, Chris R., Edwin and Alfredo Urzua. Recreation, Intercultural Friendship, And International Adaptation To College By Region Of  International Journal Of Intercultural Relations 42.(2014): 104-117. ScienceDirect. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Newsome, Linda K., and Paul Cooper. International Cultural And Social Experiences In A British University: Such A Hard Life Is  Journal Of International Students 6.1 (2016): 195-215. ERIC. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. Tomich, Peter C., J. Jeffries McWhirter, and Maria U. A. Darcy. Personality And International Adaptation  International Education 33.1 (2003): 22-39. Education Source. Web. 20 Feb. 2017 Zhou, Yuefang, et al. Theoretical Models Of Culture Shock And Adaptation In International Students In Higher  Studies In Higher Education 33.1 (2008): 63-75. ERIC. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.