THE POISON IN OUR MIDST 1 The Poison in Our Midst Ashley Taepakdee University of South Florida THE POISON IN OUR MIDST 2 The Poison in Our Midst Have you ever heard of sulfuric acid, ethylbenzene, glutaraldehyde, or hydrochloric acid (Stringfellow et al, 2017)? These chemicals may sound familiar, but even if they would you want to drink them? Beyond their complicated names lies a more simple, sinister truth. They are all known to be damaging to your organs, toxic to aquatic life, and fatal if inhaled or ingested, like Ethylbenzene, a known carcinogen where exposure can lead to an untimely death. Unfortunately, you may already be drinking these chemicals because hydraulic fracking injects them, along with water and sand, into the Earth to extract oil and natural gas from the ground, which can cause fluid to leak into aquifers or groundwater reservoirs. Because it can access oil and natural gas that would otherwise be unattainable, hydraulic fracking helps America become energy independent. Despite the benefits, it is still detrimental to the environment and communities, but this can be remedied by consumers like you. By being informed and making small lifestyle changes you can help to reduce the negative effects caused by hydraulic fracking and help companies to see the advantage in investing in greener, safer energy sources. The process of extracting natural gas and oil begins with drilling holes in the ground and then forcing fracking fluid, which is composed of water, chemical additives and proppant (usually sand used to keep open the fissures created by hydraulic fracking), into these wells at very high pressures (Kreipl, 2017). This process creates fractures in the rock formation that allow oil and natural gas to escape to the surface. It has been found that fluid and wastes from fracking contain over 71 chemicals, many of which that have been known to cause 10 or more negative health effects (Stringfellow et al, 2017). Some of these include respiratory and skin irritation, cancer, and even organ failure. For communities surrounding these sites, the chemicals pose a more imminent danger. The water they drink may be contaminated and slowly poisoning them, like in THE POISON IN OUR MIDST 3 Pavilion, Wyoming, where residents complained their drinking water had a weird smell and taste. An investigation was launched revealing that their water was contaminated with the chemical additives from fracking fluid (Vaidyanathan, 2016). What if that happened in your community? Water is an essential resource for life, and if it is contaminated then what use is it? The fracking process also uses billions of gallons of water every year. With some communities facing water scarcity, the more eminent problem is not if their water is deadly, but if there is enough needed for basic survival. Because most of the water used in fracking is considered unusable afterwards and is disposed, fracking wastes water that can otherwise be used for these communities who face shortages every year. Not only that, but since the water is now toxic, the byproducts of oil and natural gas extraction must be disposed of in wastewater injection wells (Oskin, 2015). These wells inject the waste water into the ground creating new fault lines due to the pressure and destabilizing of old lines already there, which has led to 10 times more earthquakes in Oklahoma in recent years, and increases in earthquakes in Ohio and Arkansas (Oskin, 2015). Oklahoma is nowhere near a fault line and therefore most of their earthquakes are induced by these injection sites and the communities there are suffering. Recently a 5.6 magnitude earthquake hit Oklahoma, injuring one person and causing infrastructure damage (Andrews, 2017). With the use of fracking on the rise to extract oil and gas, earthquakes may become a new normal to those who live near these sites. So far you have seen how hydraulic fracking can harm people and communities, but hydraulic fracking also harms the environment and animals. The chemicals used in this process cause vegetation to die, and with less plants, more carbon dioxide is left in the atmosphere, contributing to the erosion of the ozone layer and global warming. Fracking also allows gasses to seep out of the ground, causing even more air pollution, which can lead to the suffocation of THE POISON IN OUR MIDST 4 certain animals and plants. Because the air quality is very low near these sites, it leads to climate change with its contribution to greenhouse gasses (Meng, 2017). Waste water from fracking can pollute nearby ground water reservoirs or other bodies of water, like oceans or estuaries, causing animals to suffer and die. Not only do these deaths then affect the fishing industry, but they can also lead to animal extinctions and other adverse effects, causing a chain reaction that disrupts the food webs in aquatic ecosystems (Margaret 2016). Terrestrial animals living around these fracking sites are harmed by the chemicals as well. Reports of wildlife affected by fracking have been found in Colorado, Ohio, Louisiana, Pennsylvania, and Texas by pet owners, farmers, and veterinarians. These animals are reported to have had serious illnesses, reproductive issues, and some have even died from these effects (Fracking threatens wildlife). Together we can change this outcome. Natural gas and oil may be the treasured products of fracking, but what if they as important? By reducing our use of products made from these resources and choosing alternatives that promote a more sustainable and greener way of life, can we change our world for us and the generations to come. Some steps that you can take have to be big. For example, oil is used to fuel cars, for the manufacture of plastic products, paints, and other industrial purposes, while natural gas is used to generate electricity and heat homes, so you could just use a reusable water bottle instead of buying plastic water bottles (Plumer, 2014). You could use glass containers for food instead of plastic. Use reusable bags at the grocery store or paper bags instead of plastic bags. Some other lifestyle changes you could make are to invest in a more fuel-efficient car, or even an electric car, that not only would reduce the amount of gas you consume, but also save you money at the pump. Another action you could take is to conserve electricity. Turn off the lights when you leave a room, leave the air on when no one is home, take shorter showers, and try to conserve hot water. If THE POISON IN OUR MIDST 5 able to do so, you could install your own solar panels, which would greatly reduce your reliance on natural gas and reduce your electricity bills. All of these suggestions could reduce the demand for oil and natural gas and help to convince large oil companies involved in fracking to invest in other forms of energy, such as solar, water, or wind power. In the end, hydraulic fracking can cause earthquakes, extinctions, diseases, cancer, and even death. It also wastes huge amounts of water and pollutes the air. Just imagine a world where you are constantly sick, struggling to obtain water that is clean and air that is breathable, where you fear constant earthquakes damaging your house and belongings and putting your family at risk, a world where there are barely any plants and only a few surviving animal species. With the use of hydraulic fracking, we can get to this place, the destruction of the earth as we know it. Right now, we can still take steps to prevent this outcome by decreasing our reliance on the products from fracking. Choosing a few lifestyle changes that fit your life and implementing them can positively impact the world for yourself, for your children, and for the generations to come. we all deserve to live in a world that is full of life and not overrun with chemicals and pollution? wait to start helping yourself and your community, start changing now before it is too late! THE POISON IN OUR MIDST 6 References: Andrews, R. (2017, April 11). What Caused Powerful 5.6M Earthquake? Retrieved April 15, 2017, from http://www.iflscience.com/environment/what-caused-oklahomas- powerful-56m-earthquake/ ETHYLBENZENE. (n.d.). Retrieved April 15, 2017, from https://pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/compound/ethylbenzene FRACKING THREATENS WILDLIFE. (n.d.). Retrieved April 15, 2017, from Kreipl, M. P., & Kreipl, A. T. (2017). Hydraulic fracturing fluids and their environmental impact: then, today, and tomorrow. Environmental Earth Sciences, (3), 1. doi:10.1007/s12665-017-6480-5 Margaret, C., & Michael, W. (2016). Food, Fracking, and Freshwater: The Potential for Markets and Cross-Sectoral Investments to Enable Water Conservation. Water, Vol 8, Iss 2, P 45 (2016), (2), 45. doi:10.3390/w8020045 Meng, Q. (2017). The impacts of fracking on the environment: A total environmental study paradigm. The Science Of The Total Environment, 953. doi:10.1016/j.scitotenv.2016.12.045 Oskin, B. (2015, February 12). Hidden Faults Explain Earthquakes in Fracking Zones. Retrieved THE POISON IN OUR MIDST 7 April 15, 2017, from http://www.livescience.com/49785-oklahoma-earthquake-risk- hidden-faults.html Plumer, B. (2014, March 28). What do we use oil and gas for? Retrieved April 15, 2017, from http://www.vox.com/cards/fracking/what-do-we-use-oil-and-gas-for Stringfellow, W. T., Camarillo, M. K., Domen, J. K., Sandelin, W. L., Varadharajan, C., Jordan, P. D., & ... Birkholzer, J. T. (2017). Identifying chemicals of concern in hydraulic fracturing fluids used for oil production. Environmental Pollution, 220(Part A), 413-420. doi:10.1016/j.envpol.2016.09.082 Vaidyanathan, G., & C. (2016, April 04). Fracking Can Contaminate Drinking Water. Retrieved April 15, 2017, from https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/fracking-can- contaminate-drinking-water/