Ciancimino1 Ayrton Ciancimino Composition II Theodosiou 5/2/17 Protect and Conserve: The Fight for the Vitality of the Oceans The Oceans cover more than 75% of the planet and serve as a major resource to mankind (Ocean Conservancy). The oceans provide humans with a major food source, transportation, provides the majority of the planets oxygen, and a number of other recourses that generate revenue for humans all around the world. On top of its benefits to humans, it also serves as a massive ecosystem, home to thousands of different species of aquatic life. With all that the ocean provides, there exists a definite need to protect it. This is what ocean conservation looks to do; protect the ocean from all of the threats that pose to destroy it. Ocean conservation is a necessary act that ensures the protection of the ocean from a number of threats such as bad fishing practices, harmful hunting, and pollution. A number of organizations are in place to protect the ocean that you can join and help, as well as a number of acts that individuals like you can do to help promote ocean conservation. Ocean conservation drives the protection of the oceans, but with the oceans covering more than 75% of the planet, there is a wide area that ocean conservation must cover and many threats that stand to harm the wellbeing. Threats to the ocean may come in many different forms, many of which are caused by humans and their neglect to properly care for the greatest resource, the oceans. One such threat to the ocean is bad fishing practices like trawling, failing to follow regulations, and harmful bycatching. Trawling is the process of Ciancimino2 dragging large heavy nets across the sea beds, which damage ocean floor habitats such as coral beds. lack of regard for following fishing regulations can also cause damage, such as when recreational fishers catch fish that are protected or endangered. This includes overfishing as well, which causes major harm by depleting the numbers of fished sea life very rapidly, with many fished species being already either or fully (Teh 64). Another harmful act of fishing is the unintentional capture of Bycatch. Bycatch are any animals that are caught by accident and not an intended catch, this can include sea life such as dolphins and turtles being caught in fishing nets. Another set of bad practices are harmful hunting techniques such as whale hunting and shark finning. Whales are defenseless creatures who are often hunted for resources, despite that most of the hunted whale goes to waste. If this careless hunting is not stopped, it may greatly endanger the wellbeing. Shark finning is another incredibly cruel practice. Shark finning involves the capturing of sharks and cutting of their fins, which is often used for foods such as shark fin soup. Many fisherman though simply chop off the fins while the shark is still living, and then toss it back into the ocean to sink to the sea floor and slowly die, with no way to move or get food. One other major harm to the vitality of the ocean is pollution, which can strangle fish and sea life, cause chemical hazards, release toxins, and destroy habitats. All of these issues combined form the basis for the necessity of ocean conservation. Many have already recognized the threats posed if we continue to neglect the health of the ocean. The ocean is a very fragile ecosystems with a number of factor that affect it, and even the slightest changes in the ocean can affect us. Loss of aquatic food sources, damage to useable water, and a rise in sea level which can damage coastal area are all foreseeable threats to humanity should we not protect the ocean now. That is why a number of organizations seeking Ciancimino3 ocean conservation have been founded to protect the aquatic seascape and its inhabitants. One such organization is the Ocean Conservancy, an organization that has to protect the for than 40 (Ocean Conservancy) The charitable group offers a number of services to the planet, from organizing ocean cleanups to teaching improved fishing habits to performing coastal research. Another organization that seeks to protect the wildlife is the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, a group which actively fights against such practices as whaling and shark finning. Founded in 1977, Sea Shepherd seeks to the destruction of habitat and slaughter of as well as to ecosystems and Shepherd). The group leads a number of international campaigns which try to put an end to harmful acts by fighting them directly and in the field. Organizations like these lay the groundwork for the beginnings of recovering the ocean from the transgressions that have been allowed against it. The clock is ticking and these groups race against the clock to save the ocean from the destruction brought about by humans. As can be seen, there exists a massive need to protect the ocean and bring about ocean conservation. How can the average person protect the ocean thought? There may be more options than one may think. While there are many organizations in place to help serve and conserve the ocean, but many of these groups seek assistance from in their missions from those looking to make a change. The Ocean Conservancy primarily seeks donations to put towards their efforts, as well those looking to volunteer their time. Sea Shepherd also looks for assistance, but they look for different ways people can help. While they do accept money donations, they also seek supplies such as food and toiletries for the crews aboard their research ships, which are primarily staffed by volunteers who they send all over the world. Another opportunity for those looking to make a change is to write to companies with bad fishing Ciancimino4 practices urging them to reform their ways, or to write to your governor to improve your states fishing, boating, pollution, or coastal policies. For those living near coastal areas, an easy and highly beneficial way of helping is to partake in or even organize a beach cleanup. Litter has a great effect on not only the coastal shores that people throw it onto, but can be taken all over the world by ocean tides and currents. This litter and pollution can greatly harm sea life by destroying habitats, strangling sea life, and causing potential chemical damage. There is not much time before the damages to the ocean cannot be undone, but every little bit that is done to help revive the ocean can push the clock back. There is no excuse for people to ignore these issues, especially with so many ways people can get involved to help conserve. Ocean conservation is a worthwhile process that involves the protection of the precious oceans and the resources and wildlife that lies with them. A number of threats have the potentially damage the oceans. Bad fishing practices such as trawling and bycatch are such threats, as well as pollution released by boats, corporations, and litterers. All of the threats combined can cause great damage to the oceans which can have a tremendous effect on humanity and civilization. Organizations such as the Ocean Conservancy and Sea Shepherd conserve the ocean and reverse the damages done by humans. Beach cleanups, donations, volunteering, and writhing to influential figures are all ways the average person can get involved in ocean conservation. If action is not taken now to protect and conserve our oceans, the day may come when it is too late to turn back the damages that we have done. Ciancimino5 Bibliography Ocean Conservancy. 2017. Web Page. 1 May 2017. Sea Shepherd. 2017. Website. 25 February 2017. Teh, Louise L.S. and Allison LWitter, William A., Cheung,. et al. Ambio (2017) 46: 57.doi:10.1007/s13280016-0189-0