Wang 1 Evangeline Wang Instructor Andrew De Carion ENC1102.085S17 25 February 2017 Rhetorical Appeals On Renewable Energy Stakeholders involved in controversial issues have various approaches to advocate for their stands and beliefs. In many cases, they incorporate rhetorical appeals to defend the credibility, logic, sympathy and timeliness of their stands. One of the groups involved in the controversy of energy is the American Council On Renewable Energy, or ACORE. Their goal is to promote renewable energy, ameliorate the environmental crisis and make the society truly sustainable. Like many other stakeholders, ACORE incorporates rhetorical appeals ethos, pathos, logos and kairos to convince their audience that clean energy has promising potentials that can benefit the whole society. For example, the two images from official Twitter convey both the sustainability of renewable energy and its adequate opportunity for careers and incomes. Each image elaborates its ethos in a different way. For example, the first images shows its credibility by giving specific numbers and respective explanations. The image tries to estimate the energy savings, job opportunities and bill savings of using clean energy, however, it does not just give the viewers simple numbers, but additionally explains how they calculate and get these numbers with certain conditions. As a matter of fact, a further explanation Wang 2 seems to be more credible than a single word or number. Meanwhile, according to the original tweet (American Council On Renewable Energy, Twitter, Feb. 2017), the second image shows the capacity of wind power has increased, making it the largest renewable resource in the U.S. It applies ethos with the reference to the American flag and the clear blue sky. The flag suggests the windmills and workers are contributing to American society, and the blue sky in the background endorses the idea that wind power is renewable and clean as it does not pollute the atmosphere. By conveying the credibility of the images, ACORE boosts their persuasion on developing renewable energy. Likewise, emotional appeal is another important way to persuade the audience. Thus, ACORE also attempts to invoke the emotional attachment to renewable energy with the images. The most evident pathos for the first image are the facial expression of the worker in the middle and the picture of cash at the right hand side. The worker in the middle is smiling while looking at the equipment. This means this employee is enjoying his work, and might further indicates working for the clean energy industry is a pleasant experience. Saving money is an alternative to obtain incomes, so the viewers may eagerly want to get involved in order to save money and get incomes. In addition, the color of the numbers and capitalized words are green, which can be directly associated with or and gives a relaxing, natural visual effect, which makes the viewers feel comfortable. Therefore, the audience may have cheerful and positive feelings for this industry. The second image appeals emotions with the harmony and beauty of the image. The aligned workers give a sense of unity while the clear sky and wind turbines make a Wang 3 natural, peaceful view. Together these elements make the wind power plant itself as well as people working at this place a lovely workplace, which attracts and comforts the viewers. Logical analysis is also very essential to the audience as it specifically explains why the claim is valid. The first image adds reasonable conditions under each number to explain the potential of renewable energy. Moreover, the explanations can be regarded as causal statements as they are making assumptions and predicting outcomes. For example, by saying lifecycle energy saving when assuming average effective useful life is 12 also means that if people keep using wind power for 12 years, 36,000 GWH power will be saved. Similarly, the other two supplements encourage people to use clean energy because it will help them find jobs and save money. As for the second image, the logic is established by the overall view of the image. If the capacity of a wind power plant were small, it would not require such amount of employees to run the plant. Thus, it is logical that a large power plant has this many employees. In fact, according to Global Wind Report 2014 - Annual Market Update published by Global Wind Energy Council: of the end of 2015, the worldwide total cumulative installed electricity generation capacity from wind power amounted to 432,883 MW, an increase of 17% compared to the previous (11). Hence it seems valid and reasonable that wind power becomes the leading renewable resource in the U.S since its capacity is increasing significantly each year. At the same time, the image emphasizes the work environment is healthy and clean. Unlike the coal workers working in a dusty environment, these wind power workers are working in such a open and natural place, which means they are less likely to contract diseases like pneumonia and Wang 4 cancer. According to researcher A. Scott Laney and his co-authors: Enhanced surveillance results confirmed the persistence of severe CWP among US coal miners and documented the health consequences of inadequate dust control for (279). Thereby it is not hard for the audience to perceive the advantage of this kind of workplace in terms of its healthy environment, and this advantage further proves that wind power is very reliable and environmental. ACORE uses a appeal of timeliness as well to propose an instant engagement in using renewable energy. This feature is particularly highlighted in the first image since most part of the explanations is based on a prediction of future. The statement consume energy bill savings of $3.1 billion from 2016 to presents a significant potential of considerable savings from to the future and might make the audience want to start to use clean energy right away if they want to save money. The second image suggests kairos by giving such a wonderful view of nature and the power plant. When people want to protect the ecology and live in a healthy environment, they will possibly start to consume clean energy as the air pollution will not exist anymore and they can breathe in fresher air. Overall, ACORE combines plausible explanations, pleasant visual effects and potential of being benefited in the images to defend their position as a stakeholder in the energy market. They use these images to make the audience trust their beliefs, feel involved, want to act instantly, and understand why they are advocating for their beliefs and policies. Without the comprehensive application of rhetorical appeals, stakeholders might be unable to effectively Wang 5 convey their beliefs, values, and therefore fail to withstand a conflict. Likewise, it is important for the audience to comprehend the meanings behind each appeal in order to have objective insights. Words Count: 1278 Wang 6 Works Cited @ACORE. reducing #energy waste, Minnesota could save $3.1 billion and create 15,000 new Twitter, 13 Feb. 2017, 2:00 p.m., https://twitter.com/ACORE/status/831261725223698432 @ACORE. #wind #power surpassed 82,000 MW, making it the largest #renewable resource by installed capacity http://bit.ly/2l2B0dN Twitter, 23 Feb. 2017, 7:00 a.m., https://twitter.com/ACORE/status/834779898761838592. Global Wind Report 2014 - Annual Market Update. Global Wind Energy Council, 22 April 2016. Laney, A. Scott et al. Potential Determinants of Coal Pneumoconiosis, Advanced Pneumoconiosis, and Progressive Massive Fibrosis among Underground Coal Miners in the United States,  American Journal of Public Health, vol. 102, no. S2, May 2012 Supplement 2, pp. S279-S283. EBSCOhost, doi:10.2105/AJPH.2011.300427.