Student 1 Student Professor Gaspar ENC 1102 16 April 2017 A Shelter Away from Home Homelessness is not a topic discussed very often. When discussed, it is done so using preconceived notions rather than fact-based. For example, according to Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative, one myth associated with being homeless is that homeless people are alcoholics, drug addicts, and are lazy (THHI). Evidence found by THHI shows that homelessness can be caused for any different reasons. Factors such as lack of affordable housing, poverty, a decline in available public assistance, lack of affordable health care, domestic violence, and mental illness are powerful producers of homeless people (THHI). Although many believe that addiction to certain substances is the main cause of homelessness, a study found that, of involvement in crime and addiction problems with gambling and alcohol were not independently associated with (Shelton et al). In fact, addiction to alcohol and drug is common in the United States. The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism has done research on alcohol use and found that, million adults ages 18 and older had [Alcohol Use This research shows that alcoholism can cause a lot of problems, homelessness included, but it is not the main reason that people are homeless. The lack of knowledge about homelessness is an issue that leads to terrible treatment of the homeless and organization that are set to help them. Educating society and oneself about homelessness, organizations created to aid those on the streets, and other ways to combat this issue can lead a decrease in homelessness. Student 2 To begin with, most people do not know that there are different types of homelessness. Homelessness can be divided into three categories; chronic, transitional, and episodic. Chronic homelessness is, to be entrenched in the shelter system and for whom shelters are more like long-term housing rather than an emergency (NCH). Those who are chronically homeless are homeless because they are unemployed and need long-term housing. However, while chronic homeless people consider shelters for long-term housing, transitional homeless people are those that are looking for short-term housing. Transitional homeless people can be looking for transition to a more stable type of housing. A teen experiencing trauma at home is a perfect example of transitional homelessness. With nowhere else to go, the teen is then placed in a homeless shelter until a stable family is found for him/her. Unlike chronic and transitional homelessness, episodic homelessness is associated with those that often come in and out of homeless shelters because they are, unemployed and experience medical, mental health, and substance abuse (NCH). Homeless people cannot be categorized under one section, doing this leads to stereotypes. Educating others about homelessness is a big part of helping tackle this issue. Moreover, there are many issues to consider and even more stereotypes that need to be eliminated regarding homelessness. Organizations such as the National Coalition for the Homeless, was created to not only help homeless people, but to also address these stereotypes. The purpose of the National Coalition for the Homeless, or NCH, is prevent and end homelessness while ensuring the immediate needs of those experiencing homelessness are met and their civil rights (NCH). They do this through many different programs such as Faces of Homelessness Bureau, Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week, Outreach Runs, and many more programs. The programs of the NCH are centered around all Student 3 types of homeless people from youth to veterans, they have programs that address education issues, and policy issues for the homeless. With the help of volunteers, staff, senators, and others, this organization can accomplish its goal and help the homeless in their region and around the United States. Primarily, the National Coalition for the Homeless sets priorities regarding homelessness. They do so by feedback from people experiencing homelessness, national and local advocacy organizations, domestic federal agencies and which helps them organize issues that need to be addressed right away versus issues that can wait a while. When their work is completed, NCH provides the public with publications of their reports consisting of the issues that successfully tackled and those that need more work. For example, one publication that can be viewed is for the Count: Overcoming the Census Neglect of the written by Brendan Kearns. This report details some of the issues they have addressed with the Census Bureau and how they have overcome those issues. The NCH is an organization that is not only dedicated to helping homeless people but also address and fix policies that restrain homeless communities throughout the nation. Consequently, homelessness can happen to anyone at any moment in time. Imagine one day losing a job and unable to gain another job, struggling to pay bills, struggling to take care of a family, a person now finds themselves on the streets. Imagine sleeping on the cold floor every night, fighting off not only discrimination but thieves that steal the little possessions held dear to the heart, fighting a hopelessness that consumes, and keeping together a family that is fighting both diseases and abuse. These circumstances can happen to anyone and teenager Bee Orsini in Australia found herself in a similar predicament. With a mom struggling with mental health issues and a series of people who took advantage of both her and her mother, Orsini found herself living on the streets. To gain money for food, her mom had to pawn certain materials Student 4 such as her favorite childhood movie. Seeing this, Bee decided to drop out of school and help her mom by getting a job. Finding herself in an abusive and hopeless situation, she left her home. Through it all, moving from couch to couch, sleeping in a shelter, Bee never saw herself as homeless. Why? Because she fit the homeless stereotype, and because of this she had no one to help or turn to (The Unexpected Faces of Homelessness). Unfortunately, Bee is not the only person affected by homelessness. There are many more people on the streets fighting for their lives and unable to get help. When someone does something nice for them like buying them new shoes, they are automatically thought as being fake and viewed as people trying to swindle others instead of working for what they want. It is easy to dismiss issues such as this because they are deemed unlikely to happen, but that is far from the truth. Homelessness can affect anyone, anywhere, and at any point in time. A simple economic downfall can send thousands of wealthy, influential people to live on the streets. It can lead a family from having food, a roof, and electricity to fighting off diseases, dying of starvation and many other problems. Many have thought the way to resolving this issue would be by criminalizing homeless people and making them pay a fine or throwing them in jail just for being homeless. For example, in cities throughout Connecticut, a person without a bed is prohibited from sleeping on a park bench. A person without a place to be during the day is also banned from standing in a public plaza while laws also the ability of a person without access to food to ask for money to buy something to (Lowenstein, 2016). This can be a problem because with these laws in place, the homeless have nowhere to go and they are forced to commit criminalized acts by breaking these laws. Failing to confront homelessness or even confronting it through criminalization can lead to not only homeless people filling up jail houses, but more homeless people lining the streets. With nothing to eat and no one to help, homeless Student 5 people will resolve to the only methods of gaining attention that they know, crimes and even suicide. Many people assume that donating money to a cause will instantly make the cause go away or be solved. That is not the case, although money is a very powerful tool and can vastly help causes such as homelessness, there are other ways to help. Small actions such as joining an organization, donating clothes, donating time, and attention to homeless people and organization created to help them can make a big change. Spreading the word is an important part of helping issues such as homelessness. Just talking about it and correcting other people can lead to a removal of stereotypes. The National Coalition for the homeless is an organization that helps keep homeless off the streets and help fight for their rights. With the help of non-stakeholders, volunteers, senators, teachers and staff, the organization can grow and help men, women, children off the street and keep them safe. Research shows that many things cause homelessness not just laziness, and addiction. Simply correcting someone about this stereotype can help but most of all donating time to organizations and helping those seen on the street can make a big difference. Changing the world takes work and commitment, to change the world we must first start by changing life. (WC: 1317) Student 6 References Alcohol Facts &  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Feb. 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <https://www.niaaa.nih.gov/alcohol- health/overview-alcohol-consumption/alcohol-facts-and-statistics>. Lowenstein, Allard K. into Breaking the  The Criminalization of Homelessness in  Yale Law School. 17 Nov. 2016. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. National Coalition for the Homeless. About NCH. Web. 4 April 2017. Shelton, Katherine, Pamela Taylor, Adrian Bonner, and Marianne Van Den Bree. Risk Factors for Homelessness: Evidence From a Population-Based  Psychiatric Services 60.4 (2009): 465-72. Web Of Science. Web. Tampa Hillsborough Homelessness Initiative. Tampa Hillsborough Homelessness Initiative, 2017, http://thhi.org/. Accessed 7 Apr. 2017. The Unexpected Face Of Homelessness. Dir. TEDGLOBAL. Perf. Bee Orsini. TEDGlobal, 3 December, 2013. Web. 1 Apr. 2017. < https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w18ZuellVts>.