Ewing 1 Degas Ewing Staiger ENC 12 August 2017 Physician assisted suicide is the process of providing euthanasia to terminal patients facing imminent and most likely painful and traumatic death. Although everyone hopes to never have to deal with a situation as terrible as that, it is not uncommon for people to have someone close to them or people in their community have to deal with the physical and emotional tolls of terminal illness, which can be avoided by legalizing physician assisted suicide nationwide. This would be very beneficial as most people know someone who has had cancer and it affects a substantial part of society in some way. According to Primary Care Companion to The Journal of Clinical, physician assisted suicide is currently only legal in six states (Maytel). USF students need to come together and create a petition with ten-thousand signatures to bring this bill to congress in order to try to get this law passed in Florida One major reason why USF students should care about the legalization of physician assisted suicide is that in most lifetimes they will deal with someone close to them with a possibly terminal illness such as cancer. Even though the majority of young people do not have terminal illness many are still very exposed to the consequences of cancer. In 2016 approximately 595,690 people died from cancer according to the National cancer institute, which is a scholarly, highly reviewed source and also reputable as it gets its statistics from the government. Additionally, with most terminal cancers there is no point of operation as death is eminent. People with terminal illnesses in most states of the United States right now have no Ewing 2 choice but to face a long and painful death process as physician assisted suicide is not widely legal. This poses many problems. Hospice care is expensive and does not deal with all the pain. Additionally, terminal illness is not only a physical toll but also a mental toll that many people would rather not deal with and rather not have their family see them in such bad condition. Physicians assisted suicide allows people to peacefully when they plan to go so they can have all their accounts in order. It is not as much as an economic toll as abrasive procedures or hospice care as well. It is very likely that someone a University of South Florida student is close to will have an illness such as cancer as statistically proven through reputable sources such as the National Cancer Institute, which is well evaluated and statistics are used by doctors and various other important figures in the medical community. Another reason why University of South Florida students should get involved is predominantly because not only is it likely that they will have someone close to them deal with the pain and suffering and horrific situation of an illness such as cancer that could become terminal but they themselves also have a chance of developing an illness such as cancer. According to the National cancer institute one in every three women will have cancer in their lifetime as well as one in two men. Statistically speaking it is very prominent in our lives and even though most of that cancer is not terminal and will not require physician assisted suicide unfortunately some of it does. Another reason University of South Florida students really need to get involved is that it would be ending suffering for people with terminal illness. There have been many news stories lately of terminal ill patients leaving their state to seek refuge in a state where physician assisted suicide is legal. This may seem like a fine alternative to having physician assisted suicide legal Ewing 3 but it has many flaws. Moving is very stressful and could be too much stress to add to a situation like dying. Also it can be very difficult to leave your family especially when you are dying. Furthermore, University of South Florida students, like most college students, often have to deal with economic difficulties and other stressful situations. This makes it so that the University of South Florida students can relate and feel compassion for the economic aspect of physician assisted suicide. Hospice is notoriously expensive. According to Hospice and End-of Life-Options, paid an average of $153 per day, per person, in 2010 to cover hospice care, in the following categories: Routine home care $146.63 per day for services that patients need on a day-to-day (Debt.org). Patients can be in hospice care for as much as months and this will take a financial toll on the inevitably dying person as well as most likely their family and for this reason University of South Florida students should want to take a stand to legalize Physician Assisted suicide. Most college students understand financial struggles and the value of a dollar and should want to help the dying avoid putting the immense toll of hospice bills on their family. In order to get this plan to Florida government officials and congress to look at it the petition would have to get ten-thousand signatures or more according to University of Miami Law school. This is a source that is scholarly and highly reviewed as it is a law school, which is highly informed and reviewed as well as updated on matters of law. In order to get these signatures people would have to be passionate about this issue and willing to advertise and promote the issue. Once the bill gets to congress we have basically done our part in attempting to legalize physician assisted suicide. A petition is really the best way for people not in positions of power or government to try to pass laws. In the state of Florida initiative petitions are a legal and adequate way of getting a law passed. An initiative petition results in the law Ewing 4 going straight to the ballot box if it receives ten thousand signatures. Once the law gets to congress University of South Florida students much inform all of Florida why it is so pertinent to legalize physician assisted suicide. This will require raising money for commercials and broadcasting our need for the bill to be voted on to the citizens of Florida. Getting a well- respected Florida politician to endorse the bill would also help. In summation it would be very beneficial to legalize physician assisted suicide for a multitude of reasons. In order to do this University of South Florida students would need to get a petition with ten thousand signatures or over. The petition could then be brought to congress. This would give more rights to people with terminal illness and provide them choices and a possibly less painful alternative to hospice care that has economic and other beneficial attributes. Ewing 5 Works Cited Brown, Emily. Statutes and Legislative Doing Legal Research, pp. National Cancer Institute, www.cancer.gov/about- cancer/understanding/statistics. Accessed 12 Apr. 2017. Ganzini, Linda. Experiences with the Oregon Death with Dignity Act  New England Journal of Medicine. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Guy, Maytal, and Theodore A. Stern. Desire for Death in the Setting of Terminal Illness: A Case Primary Care Companion to The Journal of Clinical Psychiatry, Physicians Postgraduate Press, Inc., 2006, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1764532/. Accessed 12 Apr. 2017. Research Guides: Florida Legislative Law Research Guides: Florida Legislative History University of Miami School of Law, www.law.miami.edu/iml/library/florida- legislative-history-research-guide. Accessed 12 Apr. 2017. Meier, Diane E. A National Survey of Physician-Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia in the United States  New England Journal of Medicine. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.