Palta 1 Rudy Palta Maria Theodosiou Enc 1102 10 April, 2017 GMOs: the wrong solution for starvation GMOs have been a constant growing issue in the community when looking for an alternative food source. Throughout the world, the population is exponentially growing; therefore there must be some form of sustainable food source to allow for the survival of this society. The costs of the production of genetically modified organisms outweighs the beneficial aspects and people must be informed on the subject of GMOs in order to know that there are other alternatives and everyone including you is capable of helping with this worldwide issue. Genetically modified organisms are constantly spoken about as if they are the only solution which is not true, you can help fight against this method of production by supporting the non-gmo project, educating the public on the topic of GMOs, as well as attending fundraisers in order to promote the need for a natural food source. Genetically modified organisms are goods or products that have been genetically modified in order to have characteristics that promote growth and production. This has been a growing solution to develope a manner in which resources can be produced without any worry of environmental issues or pests. The Non-Gmo project is a non-profit organization that is committed to providing alternatives to food in order to promote a more healthy and natural food source (NonGmoProject). This organization feels like everyone deserves the right to know what is in their food.Companies are not forced to label if they contain GMOs therefore, this issue must Palta 2 be made known of. This organization was established in 2007 by two grocery stores, The Natural Grocery Company in Berkeley, California and The Big Carrot Natural Food Market in Toronto, Ontario (NonGmoProject). These companies wanted to make an effort through the community by educating people on the subject of genetically modified goods as well as selling verified natural goods. The organization has made over 19 billion dollars in sales, making the non gmo project the most trusted in gmo avoidance (NonGmoProject). Moreover, Genetically modified organisms have the capability of positive effects for society however, there are limitations to the outcomes and it has the potential of causing more harm than good. Some of the positive effects of the production of GMOs is that it will allow for a stable source of resources and food, causing a decrease of starvation throughout the world. The only issue with this is that people fear the unknown specifically the unknown effects of the consumption of GMOs (NonGmoProject). Also people feel like it is unethical to manipulate the genetic material of animal since it can be seen changing a of Farmers would be affected very drastically since they will have to compete with the monopolist firm Monsanto, the largest distributor of genetically modified goods (Monsanto). Monsanto has the capability of manipulating the price of seeds in the market, making farmers pay a ridiculous amount of money as well as making farmers pay if genetically modified seeds fly on their property. This then destroys much of the local agriculture causing the overall production of the economy to decrease. These farmers work hard in order to make a living and are important stakeholders for the nation, therefore farmers should be helped in order to promote this natural food source instead of being punished for something they may have no control. Palta 3 Genetically modified organisms are also capable of having drastic environmental effects due to the different characteristics that are manipulated. If these creatures were to escape into any ecosystem, they are capable of tampering with the food chain and can possibly cause overpopulation or a scarcity in the ecosystem. The pesticides used for genetically modified crops allow the plants to be more resistant to most pests and natural disasters. This would be a good solution for less developed countries that experience droughts or erosions however, these pesticides are capable of killing important animals in the ecosystem such as the honey bee (Stapleton). The honey bee pollinates flowers and plants allowing them to grow and flourish, providing resources for society therefore, their extinction has a dramatic impact on us and this is why should stand up and make a difference. In order to help inform the public of this issue and make a change, people can support organizations that promote sustainability such as the honeybee conservancy who deals with the safety of these insects (honeybee). This organization brings the bees to classrooms and educates young children on the science behind pollination, allows children to understand the importance of the organisms around us and providing them with a view on the issue. Can you imagine being killed for merely economic gain for another species, taking no consideration of the lives of other living organisms even though they provide multiple benefits for you and the environment around us. Animals are stabbed with syringes and are trapped in cages with barely any space to move. How would you feel to be held captive without any control as well as limited from the world? Speaking to a state senator is also a good method of creating change since they are the representative of that sector, regulations on the amount of pesticides or the potency can be created in order to protect these animals as well as ensure the safety of our own food source. A Palta 4 study was done on the Monsanto firm after a pigs experienced deformities due to the modified food they consumed, this study was conducted by a group of Phd scientist who wanted to analyse the plausible cause for this issue and if GMO products are actually safe to consumer (Gale). Plausible health risk from the consumption of GMOs range from infertility to cancer, more research must be done in order to know all the possible effects of the consumption of this good (Wang). Another issue of these pesticides is that over time these insects will adapt in order to become more resistant to the toxin therefore, it is going to be much harder to eliminate pest the more these pesticides pollute the world. Furthermore, change cannot occur without the help of everyday people like you. There are multiple ways to do so that takes very little effort. Many organizations such as WWF and the NonGmoProject promote programs in which people can learn about the need for an alternative food sources and the reasons why they should stay away from GMOs. With the money from donations these organization are capable of maintaining and reaching their goals, helping improve the quality of food in society and ensure the safety of the lives of millions. Much of the food that is in grocery stores gets thrown out because they have minor issues with the way they look, even if it is perfectly fine. If this food wasted, we would be able to maintain a much larger food supply and slowly decrease the amount of starvation throughout the world. With this increase in food supply there will be little need for GMOs and further research can be developed in order to find a more efficient food production method without worrying as much about the current resource status. Genetically modified organisms are merely just a temporary solution but even as a solution it contains multiple flaws. Palta 5 Protesting can be another manner of spreading the word, by demanding to know the manipulation of our food we are capable of making a choice on whether we want to eat it or not. Fundraisers and volunteering programs can also be created in order to help farmers grow their crops in order to help the sustainability of our food source. Chipotle has created a fundraiser in which a percentage of sales would go to GMO Free Florida which is a GMO free organization that tries to promote a healthy food source in Florida, this money can be used in order to promote projects for sustainability as well as marketing advertisements (Chipotle). WWOOF is also an organization that provides volunteer services for anyone who would like to help with local farmers in order to ensure the safety of agriculture as well as to experience a variety of different cultures and be educated on the method of crop production (WWOOF). This would allow farmers to reach consumer demands and also allow them to have some potential to compete with large firms such as Monsanto. How would you feel if you were a farmer and had to pay for something you have no control of such as the wind if it blows GMO pesticide on your land? Imagine having to give up all you worked on just because of a large firm merely trying to make money. A farmer is no different from you, it is merely just a job title, this situation could happen to anyone no matter what industry you are involved in therefore, it is important to stand united as a community in order to survive the detrimental market. Poverty is known to be a cause for crime within society, this is why we must ensure equality and a fair market in order to make sure this monopolistic power does not eliminate all small businesses and farmers since they are an essential contributor. In conclusion, the topic of GMOs is an important discussion and people should make an attempt to create change in order to have a sustainable society that will last for several centuries. Palta 6 There are multiple ways for people to become involved in the solution it merely takes some time and effort, becoming involved and learning about the issues going around the world allow for citizens to be more integrated in the community and allows them to express their values which could help develop new methods of production. There is only one planet in which we live in, which is why we should attempt to preserve and maintain what we will need to survive. Palta 7 Work Cited  Non-GMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. ABOUT  WWOOF. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 May 2017. <http://wwoof.net/>. Education  Honeybee N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Gale, Richard and Gary Null. Food Fascists: GMO and Pesticide Manufacturers Down and Townsend 2015, p. 75. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx?direct= G-M-Over  Chipotle. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 May 2017. <https://www.chipotle.com/gmo>. Stapleton, Patricia A. From Mad Cows to Gmos: The Side Effects of Modernization Null  European Journal of Risk Regulation (EJRR), no. 3, 2016, p. 517. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx?direct= Wang, Xin, et al. CAR-T Therapy for Leukemia: Progress and  Translational Research, 2017, p. 135. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.trsl.2016.10.008. Who We  Monsanto Company. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. <http://www.monsanto.com/whoweare/pages/default.aspx>.