Bakst 1 Adam Bakst ENC 1102 Professor: de Carion Intermediate draft: Project 3 Project 3: Why Gun Control Is Important and What Can Be Done to Stop It Whenever the topic of gun control is brought up in any forum, it almost a guarantee that this single topic will spark rigorous debate. This issue is such a polarizing topic mainly because it causes such a dissonance amongst the American people. On one hand, the right to bear arms is a symbol of American individualism, and has been since the acceptance of the second amendment. On the other hand, one can see the carnage and massacre these weapons have caused on innocent people. The American people need to take an initiative to contact their policy makers into stopping this violence. So, what can be done to better ourselves on this issue? Because clearly our current way of handling this issue is not going to work. As a collective whole, Americans need to become more educated, more engaged, and more empowered to end the vicious cycle of gun ownership to gun violence as soon as possible. Gun violence is starting to become a massive epidemic in the United States. The British Broadcasting Corporation set out to explore the data associated with the U. exceeding high fire arms crime rates: were 372 mass shootings in the US in 2015, killing 475 people and wounding catalogues such incidents. A mass shooting is defined as a single shooting incident which kills or injures four or more people, including the Some 13,286 people were killed in the US by firearms in 2015 and 26,819 people were injured [those figures exclude ... Of all the murders in the US in 2012, 60% were by firearm Bakst 2 compared with 31% in Canada, 18.2% in Australia, and just 10% in the (BBC 1). Clearly, these numbers are staggering. The threat to this country from gun usage should not be this high, especially when compared to other countries. These statistics become even more disheartening. Judy Schaechter and Patricia G. Alvarez, experts on this field, explored the true pain of this phenomena with the article Growing up-or not- with Gun Violence. In this study, the two authors explore mainly the effects of violence on children. According to this article the leading cause of death and injury for children to young adults is of result of a firearm. With this issue cause for disability and normal development is interfered with. If it assumed that adults and social structures have the responsibility to protect such young Americans from gun violence than it is on the American people to steer children away from the mental health that can come after the experience of firearm violence (Schaechter, Alvarez 1). If the children are the future than it is a duty to protect them, and the constant presence of gun violence is doing just the opposite. With this background information on the issue, it is time to discuss why it is important to not take this with a grain of salt. Think back to the tragedy that was The Sandy Hook mass shooting. Often after such a horrendous act, the people are often forgotten and the conversation goes to policies and politics. In an article by TIME magazine JoAnn Bacon, the mother of a 6- year-old student who died because of this gun violence, spoke about what it is like to lose a child so young from such a preventable act: days after my daughter, Charlotte, was murdered at Sandy Hook Elementary school in Newtown, Conn.,the victims were forgotten, as were the destroyed lives of their grieving was important that Charlotte was not forgotten... We became fiercely were impossible days filled with mistrust, deep grief and avoidance. I was also trying to figure out how to mother both my living son and my dead was three weeks after Charlotte died that I returned to the bus stop with [my The last time I had put a child on the bus, she did Bakst 3 not come home. I was shattered that morning. I spent this first school morning with another mother whose child had also died. We sat shivering, numb, and in disbelief, waiting for our children to return home (TIME 1) Reading these words should fill you with such a grievance to want to stop this from ever happening again, but yet it has been five years and very little has been done to try and end this possibility. This could be because society is not really listening to the voices that matter. Many times, after such terrible acts, the people brought into the attention of the public are politicians or at least partisan organizations leaders, but why are those who are experts on the field not interviewed more? In Eric article got Scholars of Gun Violence Describe Their Lonely Battles the idea of how scholars who study gun violence patterns are often neglected over those more prominent to the public eye (Kelderman) . So most the time the public even fully informed, so an engagement of personal information exploration is a good place to start. So far in this paragraph alone one can see the heartbreaking account of someone who has lost a love one to gun violence, an expert who studies gun violence, but what about someone who has seen and been a part of gun violence first hand. Angelica Chang and Matthew Bowden spent time collecting data, taking surveys and interview veterans on their position on gun control in America in their piece Combat Veterans on Civilian Gun Rights. The evidence shows a majority of these once active service men and women say there should be stricter policies for once convicted criminals as well as mandatory mental background checks for all buyers (Bowden, Chang 2). This trifecta should be enough for our policy makers to listen. Overall, there is an answer needed to lessen gun violence. Well, the answer is not just stricter laws and regulations. An often misconception about gun control activists is that they want to remove guns or push heavy agendas in regulations on fire arm rights; this is not the case. For a great analysis of what can be done to reduce such gun violence is form Gary Kleck, Bakst 4 Tomislav Kovandzic and Jon Bellows in their article Does Gun Control Reduce Violent Crime? In this examination, the three authors found that strict and standalone laws are not the answer. Through detailed data it becomes clear that the only laws that should be enforced are bans on those suffering from alcoholism and mental health issues saying: the he statistical results are taken at face value, some laws appear to increase violence apart from those who suffer from mental illness (Kleck, Kovandzic and Bellows 489). The misconception that more guns are needed to stop violence is counterproductive to what actually needs to be done. With all this information, the best course of action to be given with all this information would be write to your congressmen/ congress women and pled with them to propose bills to change our current situation of fire arms. There is also multiple petitions and organizations to get involved with including the Coalition to End Gun Violence. But the fact of the matter is that this is no time to become silent on this situation. Bakst 5 Work Cited: BBC. Guns in the US: The Statistics behind the  BBC News. BBC, 05 Jan. 2016. Web. Bowen, Matthew, and Chang, Angelica. Combat Veterans On Civilian Gun  Society 53.4 (2016): 398-407. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Kelderman, Eric. Got Scholars of Gun Violence Describe Their Lonely  The Chronicle of Higher Education, no. 7, 2015, p. 16. Kleck, Gary, Kovandzic, Tomislav and Bellows, Jon. Does Gun Control Reduce Violent  Criminal Justice Review (Sage Publications) 41.4 (2016): 488-513. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Taxman, Jeffrey. Gun Violence in America - a Tri-Vector  International Journal of Applied Psychoanalytic Studies, vol. 13, no. 2, June 2016, pp. 113-123 TIME. Sandy Hook Parents: How We Honor Our  Time. Time, 12 Jan. 2016. Web Schaechter, Judy and Patricia G. Alvarez. Growing up or Not with Gun  The Pediatric Clinics of North America, vol. 63, no. Childhood Development and Behavior, 01 Oct. 2016