Byerly 1 Kelsey Byerly Ms. Campbell ENC 1102.097 March 19, 2017 The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation supports initiatives, such as the Common Core State Standards, to promote preparation for postsecondary education through high-quality learning from K-12. The Common Core Initiative a framework for curricula that allows students to demonstrate both an understanding of higher-order thinking skills and their application within meaningful academic (Sambolt and Blumenthal 6). In order to ensure the academic success of students, the Gates Foundation is seeking to improve the learning process by targeting the development of teaching methods. The Gates Foundation views CCSS as an innovation that allows teachers the freedom to develop materials that aid the learning process. In the first image, a young graduate is pictured with a beaming smile, which is attributed to his success throughout his primary and secondary education. The image is captioned to validate the success CCSS guarantees. Teachers working tirelessly are captured in the second image to provide the audience with an understanding of the continuous collaborative effort put into creating an effective curriculum in accordance with the CCSS. The words Know establish the instructors as principal sources of knowledge regarding the education system. The images created by the Gates Foundation use ethos, pathos, and logos to promote the implementation of CCSS in hopes of providing students with the opportunity to achieve postsecondary education. Byerly 2 In the first image, ethos is established by the placement of the foundation emblem in the bottom right corner, validating that the graphic is provided by the Gates Foundation. Credibility can additionally be established by the attire of the young man in the image; he is wearing a cap and gown with words written above him that read It is plausible to believe the attire symbolizes the young man is coming of age and seeking postsecondary education; and, ideally the young man should be if he is graduating from high school. After all, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation supports the initiative because all students are prepared to succeed in college and career is at the heart of the Common Core State and Melinda Gates In regards to pathos, the young man in focus is radiating with glee as well as the young man in the background. It is evident both men are proud of their academic accomplishments and are enthusiastic about the next chapter of their lives, postsecondary education. The opportunity to go to college is provided by the tools and teacher collaboration program brought to them by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Their sense of pride evokes a feeling of longing within the audience to achieve the same success because it undoubtedly brings gratification. The words makes the audience feel inspired to meet the standards in order to feel as confident about college as the young men appear in the image. In terms of logos, the claim of the argument in the first image is defined as the preparedness for postsecondary education a student gains ensuing the completion of high school. The reason would be under the condition that the student meets the Common Core State Standards at every grade level. So, the unstated assumption offers that most people find it logical that a student would be by the time they leave high school. Reasons such as this provide a clear connection between completion of CCSS and being prepared for Byerly 3 postsecondary education, which is the ultimate goal of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. It is important to note that has become increasingly apparent that students will benefit greatly from at least some postsecondary education or training as they prepare to participate in global because competition within the workforce is on the rise (Sambolt and Blumenthal 2). Without postsecondary education, unemployment rate for students with only a high school diploma is 9.4 percent, compared to just 4.9 percent for those who have earned a (Sambolt and Blumenthal 3). The statistical evidence furthermore emphasizes the importance of postsecondary education when it comes time to settle into an occupation. When analyzing the image, there is no direct indication of kairos but a subtle hint can be credited to the graduation itself. A graduation is symbolic of a academic career transitioning from high school to college. This transitional period is an opportunity to further their education because now is the time to take all they have been taught, courtesy of the CCSS supported by the Gates Foundation, and apply it to the next phase of their life. In the image of the teachers, the emblem of the foundation can be found in the upper right corner, which provides credibility that the graphic is presented by the Gates Foundation. An appeal to ethos can be defined as intrinsic authority that comes from the work experience of the teachers. The Gates Foundation is to ensure that there are high-quality instructional materials available that have been developed by teachers for and Melinda Gates A ability to adequately explain concepts and ideas to students establishes their credibility; in addition, the successful regurgitation of the information furthermore reinforces credibility because it means they are teachers. As described by a research study, who possess strong pedagogical content knowledge are more effective than those with content knowledge (Meroni et al). If a teacher acquires a stronger grasp of Byerly 4 how to teach more so than the content they are teaching, they are more inclined to have an impact on the learning process of students. In order to achieve an understanding of proper instruction, teachers are able to increase their knowledge through collaboration with other teachers. The Gates Foundation claims that should be a shared enterprise, not an isolated and Melinda Gates This particular ideology is the driving force of curriculum development. The persuasive element of the visual can be magnified by the increasing number of years a teacher develops professional experience, which additionally is evidence of ethos, or credibility. When examining the image for an appeal to pathos, the diligence exemplified by the teachers reveals their unwavering commitment to provide students with proper curriculum to meet the standards. The persistence depicted in the image encourages the audience to feel confident that the education system constantly has the best interest of students at heart. The image also evokes the feeling of motivation to assist the foundation in any way possible in order to drive the development process forward in a positive direction. The words Know makes the audience feel reassured that education is in the proper hands of those who have first-hand experience with teaching children rather than legislatures who may not have the same experience. An appeal to logos is found in the argument proposed in the second image stating that Know because of their professional experience. The validity of this statement lies within itself. It is logical to assume that a teacher possesses a deeper understanding of what teaching methods provide the best results in a classroom rather than a legislature or a doctor. The experience gained over many years working within the field is valuable, as it would be in any field, to the continual development of the education system. This very idea is the underpinning of the Gates Foundation. Once more, there is no direct appeal to kairos, but a message is evident Byerly 5 that education is continuously under development with the growing contribution of teaching methods and tools between thousands of teachers. need of a teaching staff trained and up- to-date is fully recognized as being essential given the constantly changing environment, disciplinary advances and the changing student (Meroni et al). It is the resilient efforts of teachers that allow education to progress in a manner that is beneficial to future. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation supports the CCSS in hopes of preparing students for the transition from high school to college. The foundation claims that are the experts on teaching, and they know the most about what works best in the and Melinda Gates To withhold this view, the Gates Foundation works to provide teachers with the materials and resources needed. The first image of the graduate prominently depicts an appeal to emotion more so than the second image of the teachers. This method chosen by the foundation favors the targeted audience by inspiring high school graduates that they too are capable of pursuing a postsecondary education. The dominating appeal in the second image is shared between ethos and logos. As examined, it is logical to assume that collaboration among teachers increases the ability of student success as effective teaching methods of those who have taught for many years are shared and adopted. Overall, both visuals reflect rhetorical appeals that establish the Gates Foundation through credibility, emotional connections, logistical explanations, and recognition of timeliness. Byerly 6 Works Cited Bill & Melinda Gates  K-12 Education. http://k12education.gatesfoundation.org/. Accessed 9 Feb 2017. Meroni, Elena Claudia, et al. Can Low Skill Teachers Make Good Students? Empirical Evidence from PIAAC and  Journal of Policy Modeling, vol. 37, no. 2, 2015, pp. 308-23. ScienceDirect, doi: 10.1016/j.jpolmod.2015.02.006. Sambolt, Megan and David Blumenthal. College and Career Implementing ESEA Flexibility Plans, March 2013, pp. 1-34. Accessed 27 Feb 2017. Byerly 7 Image One https://www.yumpu.com/en/document/view/5108082/college-ready-education-plan-bill-amp- melinda-gates-foundation Image Two http://k12education.gatesfoundation.org/teacher-supports/teacher-development/teachers-know- best/