Student 1 Student Richard Gaspar 15 April 2017 ENC 1102 The Unspoken Killer Depression is more than just an emotion you experience when you are sad. Depression is a mental illness affecting over five percent of the American population over 12 years old, according to the Center for Disease Control (Pratt, Laura A, Ph.D.). The majority of people have some sort of opinion on what depression is, how it should be treated, and whether it should be talked about without knowing what it really is. Such a large percentage of the population either suffers from this illness or knows someone who is. The problem is that they have no idea how to go about helping that person, or themselves, live with this disease. If society were to take the time to work together to understand what depression is and how people are affected by it, lives could be saved by ending the stigma. Before forming an opinion on depression it is imperative that the disease itself is understood as well as history. Depression can be traced back as far as 400 B.C. where Hippocrates described the symptoms of depression under the name of where our modern word, melancholy, finds its roots (H.S. Akiskal). Depression was recognized but not fully understood until the mid Depression affects virtually all parts of the brain and is caused by a chemical imbalance of neurotransmitters (Nestler, Eric). Depression was historically treated by placing patients displaying symptoms in insane asylums where they were sometimes Student 2 cared for and not always treated for their disease. The more modern treatments for depression range from therapy, antidepressants, and shock therapy. The common treatments now is therapy used in combination with antidepressants, or neurotransmitter reuptake inhibitors. In people with depression serotonin is often limited in the brain. These medicines inhibit the reabsorption of serotonin, making this chemical more available. This is how depression works, but not a good explanation of how it affects patients mentally. Another important factor in forming an opinion on depression is understanding how it feels. There is an array of symptoms and signs of depression but a few of the symptoms are depressed mood, feelings of hopelessness, unable to process thoughts, and loss of appetite (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual IV). These are just a limited amount of the symptoms that those with depression experience on a daily basis. In the film Depression: The Misunderstood Epidemic those who suffer from depression describe first hand what they go through every day (Randallr1975). One of the participants in the documentary describes depression as an overwhelming thought that they would be better off dead. Others describe it as a dehabillitating feeling that prevents them from doing simple tasks such as brushing their teeth or combing their hair. There is no way to completely comprehend what depression is like without experiencing it but that stop you from trying. Often times family and friends of those suffering from depression do not have any clue what their loved one is going through. As described in Depression: The Misunderstood Epidemic many of the parents of those suffering from depression do not even comprehend the disease. They remember telling their loved ones just to get over it and to simply be happy. One mother recounts her experience of suddenly comprehending what was happening to her daughter when she read a book on a man living with depression. She describes it as having a cloud lifted. Student 3 Suddenly she viewed her daughters illness as a real and physical disease, similar to having a broken bone, or autoimmune disease, rather than a choice. Being able to fully understand that depression is not a conscious effort but rather a disease that attacks at random and is not easily controlled is the first step in making a difference. You do not always realize what consequences your words have but the people on the other end understand all too well. Those with depression are already prone to feeling like they are alone in the world and the words you choose can push them further and further into that thought process. In a novel called 13 Reasons Why, actions and their consequences are portrayed (Asher, Jay). A young girl commits suicide after a series of events take place in her life. Before killing herself she records 13 tapes and has them sent to people involved after she is dead. These tapes explain her side of the story and how their actions at the time led her to her final decision. Doing research, watching documentaries, and reading books are all simple things you can do that will help you to realize that every action has a simple and opposite reaction. Suicide is a real and prevalent issue in society. If you were to ask any given person on the street if they knew someone who had been lost to suicide the odds are the answer would be yes. Well why is this? The stigma surrounding mental illness. This is another major issue discussed in Depression: The Misunderstood Epidemic. The stigma surrounding mental illness in society is so great that according to the Center for Disease Control only 29 percent of those suffering from depression have attempted to get professional help within the past year. According to Daniel Eisenberg perceived public stigma, or what the person suffering from depression thinks might be the stigma received is higher than what the actual stigma is (Nestler, Eric J.). This may be due to the fact that stigma has been so profound in the past. Either way people are still taking their lives because they feel that they either get help, or Student 4 cause it may only make things worse for them socially. The question now is what can we do to stop this from happening. Depression is a complicated illness, it is not even fully understood by the medical community but there has been many advances in just the past 100 years. Doing your own research and educating yourself on what depression is and how it affects lives is the first step. Watching documentaries, films, reading books, and talking to mental health professionals will give you a better understanding. Without experiencing depression you will never fully comprehend how depression affects every aspect of your life but by doing these things you can be supportive of anyone and everyone who lives with this disease and similar ones. If you are really committed to becoming an advocate to those suffering from depression, a great resource for you to take advantage of is the National Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance. This organization offers free support groups to not only those with depression but also friends, family and caregivers of these patients. These support groups can provide you with all sorts of tips, tricks, and tools to help those with depression. They can teach you what is a good idea to say, and what might not be. The DBSA can teach you the warning sides of suicide and how to prevent it and get that person the help they need. You can publicly let people know that you know what depression is and that you will be there for them whenever they need. You can end the stigma by not speaking negatively on mental illness, and educating those who do. The most important thing that you can do to help prevent depression related suicides is to take a stand on this issue and become an educated advocate. (WC: 1224) Student 5 Works Cited DBSA Greater About DBSA Greater Houston /. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Feb. 2017 Asher, Jay. 13 reasons why. New York: Razorbill, an imprint of Penguin Random House, 2017. Print. Diagnostic and Statistical Manual IV. (2000). American Psychiatric Press, Washington, D.C. H.S. Akiskal Mood disorders: introduction and overview B.J. Sadock, V.A. Sadock (Eds.), Comprehensive Textbook of Psychiatry, Lippincott, Williams & Wilkins, New York (2000) Medical Care Research and Review Vol 66, Issue 5, pp. 522 - 541 Nestler, Eric J., Michel Barrot, Ralph J. DiLeone, Amelia J. Eisch, Stephen J. Gold, and Lisa M. Moteggia. Neurobiology of  Science Direct. N.p., 4 Apr. 2002. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627302006530>. Pratt, Laura A., Ph.D., and Debra J. Brody, M.P.H. Depression in the United States Household Population,  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 19 Jan. 2010. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Randallr1975. Depression: The Misunderstood  YouTube. YouTube, 27 Aug. 2013. Web. 03 May 2017.