Jean-Louis 1 Merly Jean-Louis Professor Gaspar ENC1102 16 April 2017 Poverty in the United States is often looked over or only spoken in extremes. Neighborhoods plagued with poverty tend to not only have high crime but also ridiculously low education levels. America has some of the lowest education rates in first world countries. Low socioeconomic neighborhoods are scattered around America in places like Florida, New York, and California. Typically minority neighborhoods, these low socioeconomic neighborhoods have desensitized individuals to violence and crime. Without the means to escape or the education to learn how to, many of these individuals become products of their environments. It is vital that non-engaged stakeholders take interest in these neighborhoods. They not only effect people living in these areas, but also anyone in surrounding neighborhoods or cities. Cities and states known for their crime are generally very safe but the populous low socioeconomic neighborhoods increase their crime rates significantly resulting in low property value for everyone involved. To fully comprehend the cycle of poverty in America one must looks through the history centuries back. Beginning in the slave days, African males and females were removed from their homelands and brought to America to tend to their masters. Education was not given and these individuals were often pit against other slaves to decrease the chances of a revolt. The male slaves were also often removed from their families largely influencing the family structure seen today in minority homes. When slavery was abolished, without any of the promised reparations Jean-Louis 2 (two acres and a mule) and no clear rights these, slaves were forced to once again work for extremely low wages in order to survive. During the civil rights movement, many African American individuals were subject to lower education due to inequality. Once again, the system failed these individuals. Many believe that these times were centuries ago but in reality, the civil rights movement ended only 49 years ago. During presidency, the minority community received another blow with the war on drugs. When crack cocaine was introduced to these neighborhoods allegedly by the government, it spread like a wild fire. Thousands of people were not only selling but also doing this drug on a regular. The war on drugs intensified this with the removing of the black male once again from the household. Crack cocaine sentencing is much higher than regular cocaine and many of these individuals were stuck in decade long sentencings for non-violent crimes. The family dynamic of the black community changed to what is seen now in society. Not only that, but during these times gangs started to populate all of the country and became more popular Violence Reduction 2017). Through the knowledge of the history these individuals have faced one can begin to decipher why these neighborhoods are the way they are. Minority individuals have had the odds stacked against them since setting foot in America and although it is in large part to do with personal decisions, knowing why these decisions manifested could better aid in someone humanizing these individuals. The implications of redlining are very prevalent even to this day. Although the practice of redlining is outdated and illegal now many individuals not only feel the effects of it but it is still being secretly done. Beginning in 1937 redlining refused loans and government help from areas outlined in red on a map described as high risk (Domonoske, 2016). Businesses could no longer strive due to the lack of government funding resulting in them needing to leave completely. With Jean-Louis 3 the businesses went the only source of income many individuals had forcing people to live in section 8 homes (Domonoske, 2016). In order to confront these social problems, the main resource needs to be education. Increased funding in education can allow people living in these neighborhoods a safe an enjoyable place to go rather than the streets (Gabe, 2016). Not only this but, a tougher screening, in class monitoring, and a rating system on professors can ensure these students cheated. Many teachers in these neighborhoods tend to contribute to the decreased moral of these children due to their own lack of confidence in them. An educator telling a student they do not have the ability to do something only leads to more students fulfilling the destiny set out for them. Police involved activities in the community can also increase the safety of these neighborhood by humanizing the police. The lack of trust in police officers have cause these individuals to opt out of informing the police of any information when someone is in danger or is committing a crime. Community policing can bridge the gap between the police and people in these neighborhoods (Murgado 2013). These non-engaged stakeholders can greatly aid these neighborhoods by creating resources for these individuals. Many people in these neighborhoods choose their lifestyle and feel otherwise trapped with nowhere to go. With an outlet and more exposure to what hard work could accomplish, these individuals can work towards bettering their community. Non- engaged stakeholders should remember that these individuals should not be left alone, these children should not be left without hope. Decreasing the crime rates of these neighborhoods increase safety for everyone. Prosecuting someone and sending and individual to jail does not fix a problem but instead causes another (Murgado, 2013). Although these individuals seem to be this to one does not choose the situation they are born in. Jean-Louis 4 Although many people believe poverty is due to sheer laziness the issue runs much deeper for the minority community. Individuals stuck in these unfortunate situations are unable to help themselves. These unengaged stakeholders are needed in order to not only better the livelihoods of these people but also increase the strength of the United States economy. With the ideology of we the American people can come out and really impact these people. Jean-Louis 5 Work Cited Assembly, National Human Services. NEW REPORT - Beyond Bars: Keeping Young People Safe At Home and Out of Youth  National Human Services Assembly. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.  Evidence-Based Programs and Practices - What Works in Criminal Justice - CrimeSolutions.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Domonoske, Camila. Interactive Redlining Map Zooms In On History Of  NPR. NPR, 19 Oct. 2016. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Group Violence Reduction Strategy (New Orleans,  Program: Group Violence Reduction Strategy (New Orleans, Louisiana) - CrimeSolutions.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. L, Gabe. Why Sex Education Is  Stay Teen. N.p., 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Murgado, Amaury. Community  Police Magazine. N.p., 20 June 2013. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.