Rodriguez 1 Eric Rodriguez ENC1102 Professor Campbell 19 March 2017 with Standing The Standing Rock Sioux stand proudly for the protection of the environment and/or land of their ancestors, from an oil pipeline project that could jeopardize the balance of the whole area. Their drinking water seems to be the most important issue for them. They feel their rights are being ignored as big oil companies like Sunoco are building a pipeline near lake Oahe. They did not consent to the construction. The US army corps of engineers signed off on the intial project and is responsible for its relocation, for they did this without proper consent (Sioux).During the past few years there has been tremendous effort focused on gathering people to protest and support for their cause, largely using news, their website, and social media campaigns. Images from the tribe on these platforms are released with appeals to pathos and logos to persuade anyone and everyone to join their cause. The position of the Sioux is one with a history of struggles. The ability if the audience to connect with their emotion or appeals to pathos. In the first image, we see an interesting use of color. The light blue background symbolizing clean water. The black print is used to draw attention to the statistics as well as symbolize oil itself poisoning the water. The staggering size of the data, a number that large in print. This propaganda targets the emotions of sadness and anger. Sadness and sympathy for the Sioux nations. Also, The image seeks to inspire fear in the viewer. Fear that their safety is at risk. The appeals to Pathos in the second image is a lot more difficult to discern. The success of this one depends on the preexisting sympathy for their cause to have an impact. The Rodriguez 2 goal is to gather people. Again, the use of color helps connect the audience with the message. Color scheme appeals to the public for it shows prideful display of their art style through to the fact that they are all dressed in traditional Sioux clothing. It influences the audience feel the confidence and strength associated with that pride of heritage. Those feelings aid in the recruitment of others protesting for their cause. The inclusion of the child on the left of the image targets the connection with children, appealing more toward parents and older Americans. The most powerful detail about this image is the eerie glowing eyes of all the people in the painting. Their glowing eyes suggests the power of sharing a vision and coming together amplifies itself tremendously. They present what seems like a fair argument through the first image. It is conveyed through the presentation of statistics to convince the audience of the following fallacy: it happened so often before then it will happen The inference that an incident is likely is fully intentional as it exaggerates the need for action. Also, the use of 31 years of data lends itself to being misleading or misrepresented; as both have occurred here. When interpreting the data provided on an annual basis, it is a lot less impressive. The 512 deaths round out to about 17 deaths per year. The incidents and injuries cause an audience to double count the incidents in which people were injured, convincing them more of the neglectful pipeline managers (Standing rock, Facebook). The elements of the image that pertain to natural gas are not entirely misleading because it a resource Energy Transfer partners works with that is also transferrable by pipeline. However, the DAPL pipeline only seeks to transport oil. A huge problem with this image is that it does not inform us from which companies did these pipeline failures come from. The statistics are not cited to any specific study/studies conducted. A stronger argument would be to target the Rodriguez 3 Energy Transfer Partners and cite their specific issues with previous pipelines rather than a catch-all accumulation of data. The second image has very little appeal to logos. it is a stretch to say that it does by offering audience with the 28 river nations, the argument would be you want to be heard, you will support and submit to the It harbors logic associated with the process of protest. Protest itself is a way to ensure that you are heard and at this summit there is an opportunity for you to be heard within your voices. The strongest element to me is the words their campaign name in Lakota, it means Water is life. Also the Mni Wiconi river is linked to lake Oahe and is the grounds for outrage as this water is an agreed upon right of the Sioux. Appeals to Kairos, or timeliness, are another means by which the Sioux can convince people to support their cause. In the first image Kairos is touched on by suggesting that time is running out to stop the disasters that come with a pipeline. Considering that the pipeline is almost completed, and that the Government continues to work on providing Energy Transfer Partners support against the will of the Tribe, they are very familiar with how urgent their situation is. They translate that through the caption of the first image in its Facebook post not a matter of IF it breaks but This is linked to the aforesaid fear appeal. Kairos in the second image are either blatant or suggestive. The dates and times on the second image establish time sensitive information for those who desire to aid them. The symbol of the children as mentioned before also suggests that the future generations depend on this decision and it is pertinent to help them while we still can. Ethos appeals are an appeal to credibility. The only basis on which we can trust the source that I have seen is the presence of their seal and the notion that as a sovereign body of Rodriguez 4 people (they are a local authority much like a state) that their information can be trusted. In the bottom left corner of the first image we can clearly see the seal of the Rock Sioux Tribe July They use this influence to support other campaigns that are in line with their interests. This is done by reposting such content on Facebook. The second image uses locations for the event and the medium it was posted through as credentials. For example, the images are sourced through the Standing rock official Facebook page. The locations mentioned in the advert are Native American soil which they control and have influence over. They are successful in exploiting these resources. Standing cause was formerly a grassroots movement that was catapulted into the spotlight by the media due to their constant presence outside their studios and since has placed more effort into their campaigns. The images included are some of their work to ensure, to some degree, the success of their endeavors. This is a civil rights movement in is purest form. Rodriguez 5 https://www.facebook.com/402298239798452/photos/a.422881167740159.110630.4022982397 98452/1539888536039411/?type=3&theater Rodriguez 6 https://www.facebook.com/402298239798452/photos/a.422881167740159.110630.4022982397 98452/1539719469389651/?type=3&theater Rodriguez 7 Works Cited Parks, Douglas R. and Raymond J. DeMallie. Sioux Indian Religion. [Electronic : Tradition and Innovation. Norman : University of Oklahoma Press, c1987., 1987. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ca t00847a&AN=usflc.020907748&site=eds-live. Standing Rock, Kkbold, standingrock.org/. Accessed 19 Mar. 2017.