Student 1 Student Professor Gaspar ENC 1102 2 May 2017 An Environment in Danger With the issues of global warming and finding new energy sources, scientists are constantly searching for solutions to help diminish the effect that humans have on the environment. Many companies consider a process called fracking, which involves drilling holes deep underground to release oils and natural gases, as a source of energy (Lallanilla). The holes are drilled into rock formations over two miles beneath the surface so chemically treated water can be pumped down to break up the rock (Lallanilla). This process has many consequences that affect both the environment and human health. Major stakeholders such as Greenpeace, Americans Against Fracking, or The Sierra Club argue that fracking contaminates billions of gallons of water with the chemicals used treat the water They also argue that fracking is linked to an increase in the number of earthquakes in the areas of drilling Fracking is a process that is detrimental to the environment due to increased earthquakes, and is a health concern for humans because of the contamination of drinking water. It is important that people stand up to this damaging process by joining organizations against fracking or donating to their cause because of the negative effects fracking has on the environment and human health. First, hydraulic fracturing was implemented in 1949 and quickly grew after being patented by the Pan American Oil Company A Fracking takes place across the United States now, with more than 500,000 active natural gas wells Student 2 With its increase in size, fracking has also become a major source of news. On March 4th, 2017, the Pawnee Nation sued Oklahoma oil companies over earthquake damages caused by fracking in nearby areas Nation Sues Oklahoma Oil Companies in Tribal Court Over Earthquake This is one example of the impact that fracking has on both the environment and humans. The fracking near Pawnee Nation caused an earthquake that damaged the environment as well as towns in the vicinity Nation Sues Oklahoma Oil Companies in Tribal Court Over Earthquake One other example is a news article by The New York Times, Course, E.P.A. Says Fracking Can Contaminate Drinking written in December of 2016. This article describes how the E.P.A. has concluded, in a new extensive report, that hydraulic fracturing has contaminated drinking water (Davenport). This information shows that hydraulic fracturing, fracking, has been around for many years and continues to cause negative effects on the health of our population and the environment, so it should not be allowed. In addition, there are many arguments used by stakeholders that show the effects fracking has on the environment. The first main point is that fracking contaminates drinking water and uses too much water Natural For example, water is scarce in some states, with water bans in effect, and yet fracking uses more than 3.6 million gallons of water per well This water could be used in places in the United States that do not have enough water to use, instead of being pumped into ground and contaminated for fracking. A study was conducted by the EPA, linking fracking to contaminated water supplies in the United States by showing that there were more than 150 instances of groundwater contamination due to fracking in the United States EPA. Hydraulic Fracturing for Oil and Gas: Impacts from the Hydraulic Fracturing Water Cycle on Drinking Water Resources in the United This Student 3 contamination causes health concerns for people drinking the water because there are toxic chemicals that people should not ingest. The contamination also affects the environment because organisms that live in the water, or rely on the water to survive, are consuming the toxic chemicals as well. Another important point is that the contaminated wastewater from fracking is injected into deep wells for disposal which may cause earthquakes (Ellsworth). Between 1967 and 2000, Oklahoma average 21 earthquakes that were above a magnitude of 3.0 per year (Ellsworth). There was a significant increase after the year 2010 with an average of more than 300 earthquakes in Oklahoma above a 3.0 magnitude (Ellsworth). This increase in the average number of earthquakes shows that the increase in earthquakes is linked to fracking. Earthquakes cause environmental damage by destroying habitats of animals as well as human structures. With the increase in earthquakes due to fracking, there is more damage done, both to the environment and human civilization. Therefore, fracking should not be allowed because there is evidence that it causes contamination of water supplies in the United States and an increased number of earthquakes. Both effects harm the environment and pose health threats to humans. Similarly, fracking affects lives in devastating ways. In Bradford County, Pennsylvania, fracking has had a major impact in one life. Sherrie Vargson owns a well 100 feet from her house that supplies all the water to her house Because her well is near a drilling site for fracking, Sherrie is now able to ignite the water that comes out of her kitchen faucet because of the contamination that fracking has caused Water is a liquid that should be used to put out fires, not start them. situation shows the disastrous consequences that fracking has on lives. For this reason, fracking should not be allowed to continue because of the harmful consequences it afflicts. Student 4 For these reasons, people should care that fracking must be stopped. If fracking is not stopped, then the effects that fracking has on the environment and human health will continue to occur. For example, more of the United drinking water will become contaminated with the harmful toxins contained in the wastewater of fracking. This contamination will cause health issues in humans and organisms that rely on the water. In addition, the number of earthquakes will continue to rise and destroy habitats and cities. There have been people who have previously tried to protest this process but it has been ineffective thus far. Thus, people should join their local groups that protest to gain more voices in argument of this process. Donating to the cause would also greatly impact what the different organizations are able to do or how they can protest. Fracking is a harmful process that should be stopped because of the health implications on US citizens and the damages done to the environment. It is essential that people get involved with this cause and join their local group today to protest this harmful process. There are organizations across the entire country that support this cause and with more support comes more progress towards achieving the goal of protecting the environment. (WC: 1208) Student 5 Works Cited Beyond Natural  Beyond Natural Gas. Sierra Club, 2017. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. Davenport, Coral. Reversing Course, E.P.A. Says Fracking Can Contaminate Drinking  The New York Times. The New York Times, 13 Dec. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Ellsworth, William L. Science, American Association for the Advancement of Science, 12 July 2013, science.sciencemag.org/content/341/6142/1225942. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Greenpeace USA, Greenpeace, 2017, www.greenpeace.org/usa/global- warming/issues/fracking/. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Fracking  Fracking 101. Sierra Club, 13 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Apr. 2017. Lallanilla, Marc. Facts About  LiveScience. Purch, 23 Jan. 2015. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. Pawnee Nation Sues Oklahoma Oil Companies in Tribal Court Over Earthquake  The New York Times. The New York Times, 04 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Shooters - A   American Oil & Gas Historical Society. N.p., 29 Apr. 2016. Web. 29 Apr. 2017. U.S. EPA. Hydraulic Fracturing for Oil and Gas: Impacts from the Hydraulic Fracturing Water Cycle on Drinking Water Resources in the United States (Final Report). U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC, EPA/600/R-16/236F, 2016.