Rhule 1 Jessica Rhule ENC 1102 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Professor Campbell 31 March 2017 Visual Appeals Against Involuntary Commitment Involuntary Commitment is a process commonly used in psychiatric healthcare which involves court ordered psychiatric treatment to an individual experiencing mental health problems Vision, Mission, Values, and If an individual is deemed a threat to themselves or someone else the court will order an impatient stay up to 72 hours. In other legal cases the courts may order outpatient treatment in which the individual will be required to adhere to a treatment plan designed on a case by case basis. A major point of contention for many in involuntary treatment is forced medication. For organizations like Mad in America, this is a large component of current drug-based paradigm of care has failed our in America Mission MIA is a nonprofit organization that believes the current psychiatric system needs to be modified. They have a two-part program to demonstrate the need for change via an online magazine and an online education program called in America Continuing taught by renowned psychiatric researchers. Their online magazine includes research articles, journalism articles, and forums for discussion among individuals who have had related experiences, counselors, researchers, social workers, and other professionals involved in the field. MIA endorses statements, artwork, books, and articles all speaking out against involuntary psychiatric treatment throughout their site. Examples of the art and book 2 covers against these treatments are used to promote this idea that involuntary treatment is more harmful than helpful to the individual. The artwork shown here it Prozac? Or and the book cover are both used to strike a negative response towards involuntary psychiatric treatment, and the idea that it hurts more than helps, through the usage of color, language, and symbolism to appeal to the thoughts and feelings about the issue. In the first figure, titled aims to convince the viewer that being committed to psychiatric facilities should be feared and avoided (Figure 1). The image includes a large human figure with hands and face pressed against glass however, it is too foggy to see the individual or anything else in the scene. It also includes the word large in gray followed by battle over involuntary psychiatric in red. These features of the image reveal that the creator is assuming the viewer has a limited knowledge regarding involuntary commitment but does have an understanding of the English language and logic. These assumptions also reveal that there is a logical fallacy at play; the idea that involuntary commitment is always scary, harmful, and should be avoided. While the assumption demonstrated is flawed, the image is very strong in its provocation of fear and timeliness in how it applies to the American population. This figure is remarkably similar to the cover of the horror film Human which is an image already associated with fear to anyone familiar with the movie (Figure 3.). Without the comparison to the film cover the image still strikes fear into the viewer because of the gray and red tones and the placing of the word The word battle is also significant because individuals struggling with mental illness often describe it as a while here, instead depicted battling the sources that are supposed to help them. Another significant detail is that the figure in the image is seen without a face leaving it anonymous, providing the impression that 3 these feelings of being trapped by the psychiatric care companies can happen to anyone. This anonymity not only enhances the fear but it adds a sense of urgency. This image was released recently, during time that 1 in 5 Americans struggle with a type of mental health problem any given year, that means this issue of being is happening right now to millions of our population and can happen to anyone. (Mental Health By the Numbers). These feelings and messages are encouraged further at the top of the image where real names are listed and a reference to a real experience, asking themselves would I which reinforces the idea that these things are real and credible. This quote also appeals to the logic of the viewer because it cites a genuine, real reaction after learning what these people have to say about involuntary psychiatric care. However, the appeal could be strengthened if statistics for ratings of people committed, or a statistic about how many psychiatrists agree that involuntary commitment is not a humane treatment program. While these images and appeals to emotion are effective, they do still contain flaws of logic that reduce how effective the image is. The overall assumption that if one is committed to a psychiatric facility unwillingly it will be a traumatic, scary experience rather than a pleasant healthy one is a false and takes away from the images purpose. According to Timothy Jordan, he is one of the many less popular stories in which being committed involuntarily saved his life and set him on the path to recovery (White). Overall in this image is effective in portraying an intense situation where the patients are viewed as victims struggling the battle to get away from the psychiatric ward they have been forced into, in which of course, one would feel scared for the psychiatric professionals. However, the image faults in assuming this is the entire picture for involuntary commitment because there are positive outcomes of these treatments that happen that this portrayal is ignoring. 4 The second image here is a piece of artwork used to promote the ideas that the pharmaceutical companies used in psychiatry are not truly invested in making the mentally ill feel better, but actually their motives are aimed in making money even if that means harming individuals by forcing them to take medications. This message is aimed at an audience who has had experience with mental illness and especially those that have been treated with antidepressants, especially revealed by language like miracles promised by and placebo It assumes that anyone experienced these medications have felt relief of their symptoms with these medications, and that they aware of the symptoms of such medications, which is shown in the statement they work, sometimes which aims to make people to feel anxious and fear for what the medications may do to them. Similar to the other image, this also reveals the idea the creator is trying to suggest: the fallacy that these types of treatments are again to be avoided and are harmful. The image provokes a tone of anger and conspiracy against pharmaceutical companies via the bright red background accompanied by a danger sign, a gun loaded with antidepressants, a baby bottle filled with pills. The symbolism of these images promotes an idea that the things that are supposed to be helping and nourishing you are killing you. The bright red danger sign also provokes a sense of urgency that the danger is occurring now. These symbols also accompany words that say it leaves a bad big pharma would like us all to be taking their mind-numbing drugs, sometimes they work sometimes This end of the sentence adds to the feelings of urgency and suspense as if death is imminent and approaching rapidly. The reliability of the image is displayed in the statement research suggests that the miracles promised by antidepressants may largely be due to the placebo effect. Too bad there is no money to be made in sugar because of reference to current research, however, this 5 would be strengthened if they sighted real studies that supported these statements. Additionally, the creator does not cite any resource of information or anyone to back up their claims but continues to make very serious claims about the topic, revealing an argument from authority logical fallacy, which significantly weakens the images ability to accomplish goal. Overall, these images both aim to deter people from involuntary commitment and forced psychiatric medications. They do this by primarily appealing to fear, and anger, then by logic and authority. However, the arguments in both images is weakened by the assumptions they make about their audience, including, level of intelligence, and experience in the field. Additionally, the fact that trying to force the assumption that these depictions are always the case in terms of involuntary commitment being very intense, negative, and traumatizing. 6 Works Cited American Psychiatric Association. Vision, Mission, Values, and Goals. APA Publishing, 2017, https://www.psychiatry.org/about-apa/vision-mission-values-goals. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. IMDb. The Human Centipede (First Sequence 2009). ImDb Inc., 2017, http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1467304/. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Mad in America Science, Psychiatry and Social Justice. Mission Statement. Mad in America Foundation, 2016, https://www.madinamerica.com/about-us/. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. National Alliance on Mental Illness. Mental Health By the Numbers. NAMI, 2017, http://www.nami.org/Learn-More/Mental-Health-By-the-Numbers. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. White, G., Baker Act, Which Can Bring Long-Term Healing, on the Rise in Polk County and Florida. The Ledger, 27 Jul. 2013, http://www.theledger.com/news/20130727/baker-act- which-can-bring-long-term-healing-on-the-rise-in-polk-county-and-florida. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. 7 Figure 1. 8 Figure 2. 9 Figure 3.