Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 April 30, 2017 Effect of Consumer Perception on the Utilization of Solar Energy Solar panels have a reputation of being a green source of energy, yet the technology is still severely underutilized. Growing concerns about the generation of pollution and toxic chemicals by traditional energy sources, as well as concerns about dwindling supplies of those sources, would, presumably, lead to wider implementation of cleaner, renewable sources, but this is frequently not the case. Solar is an example of this. Solar energy is a green technology that could be used to supplement or even replace these traditional sources, yet solar has not become a widely used or recognized technology. Part of the reason for this is due to public perception of the technology. While it is well known to be a clean source of energy, it is generally considered to be expensive, unsightly, and inconvenient (Faiers and Neame, 1803). While there is some truth to these claims (ugly, for example, is a matter of opinion), they should be weighed against a wider perspective. Instead of shaping the future based on immediate concerns of the present, humanity needs to shape the present based on the concerns of the future. Consumers should consider the long-term benefits of solar energy, rather than the short-term concerns. Whether or not solar would be good for the world is not frequently called into question. The research shows that solar technology is both dependable and eco-friendly (Faiers & Neame, 1798). Solar energy, along with other renewables, can help decrease the number of people with no access to electricity, with minimal ecological impact (Ogihara et al, 63). Solar energy can decrease the amount of pollution, even as the number of individuals in the world utilizing power increases (Delmas et al, 1-2). Based on viable site analysis, research shows that the United States Student 2 could easily depend on solar energy or wind power as its dominant sources of electricity (Borenstein, 72). On the other hand, traditional sources of energy, such as coal and gas, cause lots of damage to the environment, such as global warming, air pollution, deforestation and so forth (Foster et al). Then there are disasters such as the Gulf oil spill to consider, or the inherent dangers of coal mining. Despite all the benefits of solar energy, research suggests that a major ongoing issue in the adoption of is that consumer concerns about more immediate factors often trump environmental or social concerns (Delmas et al, 3). One such immediate concern consumers focus on is financial. Perhaps the most commonly cited barrier to solar panels is that they are perceived as expensive, especially for the individual. However, research shows that solar energy is cost-competitive (Faiers & Neame, 1800). Solar panel construction and installation represents a significant investment, but solar is not as expensive as is generally believed. Part of the expense is due to the fact that solar energy is at a disadvantage against traditional sources, since most systems and business models in place were created for traditional sources (Ogihara et al, 64). Solar energy requires start-up costs, same as any energy source technology, but the majority of expenses exist in the start-up period. Unlike coal, nuclear, or natural gas, there is no material to mine: once the technology is set up, the sun does the work. Delmas et al show that the cost of solar panels is decreasing, while their effectiveness is increasing (4), and that there are many more options for financing than previously (10). These authors even claim that with adequate credit scores a consumer can buy a solar energy system with $0 down (12). Another immediate concern that affects consumer decisions is that consumers are more likely to be swayed by questions of aesthetics. For example, this concern will affect the course of a home improvement project more than long-term personal or social benefits of solar technology. Student 3 The research of Faiers and Neame demonstrates this trend, showing that consumers ignore solar technology as a socially responsible choice, focusing instead on how the change would affect the appearance of their home. Since this is a matter of personal opinion, this represents an argument that cannot be disproved, but consumers need to consider the broader consequences. Feelings that solar panels are ugly might not be easily overcome, but are they uglier than wildlife killed by oil spills, or smog filled cities? Are they uglier than the mangled body of a coal miner? While these images are an appeal to emotion easily ignored, discounting alternative energy sources for purely cosmetic reasons is irresponsible, selfish and short-sighted. Since they are less familiar with it, some consumers are concerned about issues such as reliability, practicality, and convenience, but research shows that these concerns are unfounded. Solar technology has matured to the point where it is as reliable as traditional sources of energy (Faiers & Neame, 1798). As for practicality and convenience, the situation varies solar is much more practical and convenient to install in situations where a new access to power is needed, such as a new home, or to villages that have never been connected to the grid, because the startup costs can then be included in the construction. Research has demonstrated that solar is more likely to be adopted in situations where the cost of installing solar is significantly reduced compared to utilizing the available grid, which again suggests that practical concerns affect consumer choice (Delmas et al, 4). Solar energy suffers from poor public perception, most of it either undeserved or exaggerated. Solar still stands as a potential and potent alternative to traditional sources, if it could only become a more widely accepted power source. Consumers need to look beyond their immediate concerns and consider the larger implications. A more socially responsible attitude is needed. Most of the objections to solar are either superficial, or larger concerns outweigh them Student 4 heavily. Consumers, as well as policy makers, need to consider the consequences of choosing not to adopt cleaner energy sources, instead of focusing on near-sighted concern. When one imagines the future, based on our current course, what does one see? What if, instead, humans imagined the present based on where they want to be in the future? Student 5 Works Cited Borenstein, Severin. The Private and Public Economics of Renewable Electricity  Journal of Economic Perspectives 1 (2012): 67. Academic OneFile. Accessed 5 Feb. 2017. Delmas, Magali A., Matthew E. Kahn, and Stephen L. Locke. The Private and Social Consequences of Purchasing an Electric Vehicle and Solar Panels: Evidence from  Research in Economics (2016). Science Direct, doi: 10.1016/j.rie.2016.12.002. Accessed: 5 Feb. 2017. Faiers, Adam, and Charles Neame. Consumer Attitudes Towards Domestic Solar Power  Energy Policy 34.(2006): 1797-1806. ScienceDirect, doi: 10.1016/j.enpol.2005.01.001. Accessed: 19 Feb. 2017. Foster, Robert, Majid Ghassemi, and Alma Cota. Solar Energy: Renewable Energy and the Environment. Boca Raton: CRC Press, 2010. E-text. Ogihara, Akira, et al. Policies to Ease the Transition to a Post-Fossil Fuel  International Review for Environmental Strategies 7.1 (2007): 63-79. Academic Search Premier. Accessed: 19 Feb. 2017. Walker, Andy. Solar Energy: Technologies and the Project Delivery Process for Buildings. Hoboken, New Jersey: Wiley, 2013. E-text.