Daugherty 1 Julian Daugherty Erika Stagier ENC 1102 16 April 2017 End the Embargo Trade, both domestic and international, is necessary for countries to sustain a population and foster economic growth. Since the Cuba has been isolated from the United States through an embargo on nearly all trade. The causes of the embargo are rooted in the Cold War, in the United attempts to contain communism. Cuba, like most island nations, relies on imports to sustain larger populations, but has had difficulties progressing infrastructure to improve the lives of citizens due to the sanctions. Since the end of Cold War, the United Congress and lawmaking bodies have discussed various legislation regarding the embargo. Nonetheless, the new bills have failed to be passed. Recently, a committee in Congress introduced a bill, the Cuba Trade Act of 2017, that would lift most aspects of the embargo. The embargo is an outdated practice and should be repealed through the Cuba Trade Act of 2017. To earn the attention of representatives in Congress, there must be adequate support shown by United States citizens. To build initial support and awareness, students at the University of South Florida could act to spread support locally. The students could influence support by becoming engaged in the legislative process. The various levels of citizen engagement include, but are not limited to, spreading information to others using various mediums, gathering signatures on petitions, and contacting representatives at a local or national level. The significant effects of the bill would benefit citizens in the Southeastern United States and Cuba. The restrictions on trade between the United States and Cuba began in 1959, with the conclusion of the Cuban Revolution. The Cuban stance and subsequent actions Daugherty 2 with American citizens provoked the United government to place sanctions on the country. The embargo was justified when the Cuban Missile Crisis occurred, which nearly plunged the world into nuclear war. As relations relaxed between the United States and the Soviet Union, the embargo persisted. In an article reviewing the economic status of Cuba since the embargo, social science researchers Paul K. Drain and Michele Barry state the Soviet Union collapsed in 1989, foreign aid faltered and economy and health (Drain, Barry 572). This illustrates the dependence of Cuba on foreign support. Without adequate foreign aid, Cuba is placed in a difficult position. With fewer available supplies, the citizens became more dependent on the government. This strengthened the influence on their citizens, which was the opposite of the intended result. Lifting the embargo would allow the United States and Cuba to benefit from the trade potential offered by the Cuba Trade Act of 2017. state as a large Caribbean island is an opportunity to tap into the tourism industry. (LeoGrande, 954) Cuba could take advantage of the tourism opportunities that exist on the island. For example, numerous cruise ships pass by the island at regular intervals, so adding Havana or other cities as a stop would not take great effort. The trade act would allow the United States to export materials, technology, and medicine to Cuba to improve their infrastructure that has progressed little from the Internet capabilities and services, which are poorly provided in Cuba, could be exported by the United States and improve the educational capabilities of Cuba. Florida is about 100 miles from Cuba, so trade could be easily conducted compared to a country on the other side of the world. The United States could flourish from increased trade. Short term consequences of the Trade Act of 2017 could be an increase in exports to Cuba from the United States. Long term effects from growth in Cuba could be the development of businesses in the United States and Cuba. Daugherty 3 Supporting the legislation now may secure career opportunities in the future. Business students could take advantage of the increased trade, tourism, and small business growth. Students with STEM majors could be employed to improve infrastructure, shipping, and installing technologies in Cuba. With more people and infrastructure to support them, medical students could more easily seek employment with hospitals on the island. These opportunities would last a short time, since the improvements would likely increase the education possibilities. With more education, the island could move from barely sustaining to economic growth. (Berrios, 182) The results of which could be felt by Americans and Cubans. To begin investing in this prosperous future, citizens can begin becoming more active in the legislative process. The United Congress has an overwhelming number of topics and bills to review. For a certain bill to be discussed, there must be sufficient support shown for it. This support can begin locally and gather momentum as it spreads. Starting locally allows the idea to develop and be revised to be applicable to larger and larger groups. The level of involvement desired is up to the individual. Lower levels of involvement would qualify as remaining educated and updated on the progress and state of the trade act. The main goal of spreading awareness is to show support for the bill. Representatives are elected to improve or maintain the status of their constituents, so if the constituents are voicing their support of a bill, then the representative will be influenced to argue in favor of the bill. Students can begin the process by getting involved in spreading awareness of the Cuba Trade Act of 2017. Information on the Cuba Trade Act of 2017 could be transferred through several mediums. A tried and true method of gathering support is to create a petition, either hard copy or electronically. Gathering the signatures of students and passing the information to representatives is an effective way of being an engaged citizen. The audience of the petition is restricted to the Daugherty 4 location used to gather signatures. A college campus would be an excellent source to collect younger signatures. In addition, students that are active on social media could spread information through mobile devices. Social media would be more effective at influencing students and younger citizens. Another means of communicating would be local advertisements. It could be implemented through a newspaper or radio station. The newspaper could be passed around the University of South Florida campus and the radio station could be a station popular with students. At higher levels of involvement, students may contact legislators that could show support for the bill. From the mayor to a national senator, students can make their voice heard. Local political headquarters could provide crucial information and assistance for spreading information on legislation. Using the support of a local political headquarters, students could form a persuasive argument for the Cuba Trade Act of 2017. Contacting representatives would provide crucial information on the progress and the individuals could provide aid in spreading the information. The credibility and reputation could help gather support amongst students at the University of South Florida. The officials would aid with their presence, their experience, and public speaking ability. Cuba presents a major opportunity for economic growth. A bill to relax the trade embargo on Cuba has been introduced, but requires more support to have the best chance of success. The current stance of the United States is outdated and citizens in the United States and Cuba would gain from increased trade. Citizens, such as university students, can show support by becoming more politically active. They can help at varying levels, depending on each views. Daugherty 5 Works Cited Drain, Paul and Barry, Michele. Years of U.S. Embargo Health Outcomes and Science Magazine. vol 328, 2010. Accessed 12 Apr 2016 LeoGrande, William Policy Long Past Its Expiration Date: US Economic Sanctions Against Social Research: An International Quarterly. Vol. 82, no. 4, 2015. Accessed 12 Apr 2016 Berrios, Ruben. America Should Lift Cuban Contemporary Review. Vol. 265, issue 1545, 1994, p 182. Kuntz, Diane. Politics of Suffering: The Impact of the U.S. Embargo on the Health of the Cuban Journal of Public Health Policy. Vol. 15, issue 1, 1994, p 86-107. Salem Press Encyclopedia. 1 st edition, 2016. Procon.org, 19 Dec. 2016, http://cuba-embargo.procon.org/