Student 1 Student Instructor Dr. Gaspar ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Fight for the Arts and Growth Most are not aware of the national impact fine arts studies and career fields have on youth. For years now, the fine arts community and advocates have been striving for the ability to continue art education in schools as well as sustain support for fine arts across the nation. It has become a re-occurring social concern whether or not to eliminate the arts as a whole due to financial support from the government being unreliable. Unless a person is a participant in the fine arts community then it could be said that some people are unfamiliar with what the broad fine arts term means or what type of art it includes. First of all, fine arts is defined as, art consisting of visual arts, dance, music, and (National Art Education Association). However, a fine art is also referred to as an activity that is of great skill or accomplishment (National Art Education Association). In relation to fine arts within curriculum, it has been found that the arts is a key aspect in the success and achievement of students inside and outside of school (Ruppert 8). The problem that needs to be confronted is the suspension, or lack there of, towards funding for the arts in education as well as for the arts opportunities within communities. Students who participate in the arts learning have mastered other subjects and have gone on to become more successful outside of school; therefore, joining voices together is the best way to fight for the fine arts opportunities in America. Fine arts such as theatre, dance, music, and visual arts have been developing all around the world since the 18 th century, producing tremendous history within all aspects. It was not until Student 2 the late and early that research was done to discover the influential value of the arts in education. In the beginning, arts education was not taken as seriously as it is now, leaving most opportunities unrecognized in generations such as parents. Some studies have suggested, fewer than half of adults report having participated in arts lessons or classes in school- a decline from about 65% in the (Maguire et al. 368). Most Americans would be surprised to know that fine arts have always been influential in society. For example, there is an interesting fact about how fine arts even influenced one of former presidents who secretly had a great attraction for the arts. An article that discusses art in history mentions that, vision for the developing nation involved a strong interest in the arts. He assembled his own art collection that was the first significant art collection in the United (Zalewski 49). Since most of the history in fine arts has shaped this great country, the issue of the arts existence in communities has risen to a high level of public concern since threatened. The main reason arts education and communities is a current issue is because the arts, in general, are about to be eliminated from education due to the government trying to cut off funding. If they do so, fine arts communities will no longer have financial support to remain a successful business and arts learning opportunities in schools will then become unavailable to youth. If a solution is not found then the people lose the backbone of main influence towards cultural diversity, innovation, and creativity. The counterargument that has been made by the side regarding the funding of fine arts is towards the NEA (The National Endowment for the Arts). The NEA has been a federal agency since 1965 that supports the arts and their funding creates the opportunities for participation and development in the arts. According to The Heritage Foundation, eliminating funding for the NEA would help start bring America out of debt since, $99.5 Student 3 million that funds the NEA also represents the entire annual tax burden for over 436,000 working-class American (Jarvik 4). Another reason why the government wishes to cut off the funding for the NEA is because over the last couple years the NEA has lowered the quality of American art. In addition, in the beginning of the the NEA started to fund pornographic material. Since then, they have continued funding pornography due to the fact that the agency is allowed to fund whatever type of art it chooses. Even though the government provides some logical evidence towards their reasoning, the whole arts community does not have to suffer in the punishment to the NEA. It has been explained by other organizations, such as the Americans for the Arts Action Fund and the Arts Education Partnership, that the support of the NEA is not entirely necessary for continuing arts in education and in communities. However, the need for permanent funding of some sort is required for the arts as a whole to remain successful in education and society. In order to show how important arts learning really is for students and communities, there have been various studies done where research has proven the many benefits to students who are involved in arts classes. For example, in 2005 The College Board came out with an article related to the SAT scores of student who study the arts. The results show that, who took four years of arts coursework outperformed their peers who had one half-year of less of arts coursework by 58 points on the verbal portion and 38 points on the math portion of the (Ruppert 9). On top of students in arts education succeeding in other subject areas, research has also proven how students in arts education learn other skills and abilities that are helpful to them outside of school. arts activities promote growth in positive social skills, including self- confidence, self-control, conflict resolution, collaboration, empathy, and social (Ruppert 14). Arts education does not just aim for the student to be only successful throughout Student 4 their time attending grades K-12 and college. All of the elements assessed in the learning curriculum of arts education are structured towards making students grow into successful members of society once they are out of school. An announcement made by the chairman of the National Endowment of the Arts in a academic conference proved this objective, he states, purpose of arts education is not to produce more artists, that is a byproduct. The real purpose of the arts education is to create complete human beings capable of leading successful and productive lives in a free (Reeder 116). The main victims that could be affected by the lose of arts education is the students who actually dedicate their studies and major in those arts such as theatre, dance, music, and visual arts. Specifically, Tyleah Hawkins writes an article that includes two students from Howard University, Joe Williams and Nate Shellton, who discuss how participation in arts learning has benefited their lives. Joe Williams, a junior, states, elementary school, music sparked my interest and led me to playing the trumpet. It gave me the opportunity to travel to places I otherwise would not have gone, and most importantly, helped me become more culturally accepting by broadening my musical (TheWashingtonPost.com). Both of these students had very powerful views when it came to the topic of how public schools are cutting off fine arts education first. Williams adds that if it were not for music he would not be as as he is today to learning about and meeting new people, (TheWashingtonPost.com). In addition, how this issue has impacted these students along with anyone else who may end up in the same circumstances was detailed by Nate opinion. A sophomore majoring in acting at Howard, believes this issue disgraceful, Shellton states, says a lot about what is important to education in America. Because math and science is what is being tested, test that determine a ranking is what is most important to the school, but the ranking is not Student 5 necessarily in the best interest of the students as a whole (TheWashingtonPost.com). Maybe parents of the community can consider that factor when determining the education opportunities available to their child. Members of society can help and get involved with many different organizations in order to support fine arts and fight for continuing arts learning in schools all over the nation. The top organizations concerned individuals can get involved with are the Americans for the Arts Action Fund and the Arts Education Partnership. The Americans for the Arts Action Fund is an arts advocacy organization that, citizens to mobilize support of the arts and arts education around the (Americans for the Arts Action Fund, a little about The Arts Education Partnership works to, the arts in education through research, policy, and (Arts Education Partnership, When joining and becoming a member for either organization, it starts the beginning of being a partner in the support of arts education and fine arts opportunities in communities. After joining the organization, the most important contribution as a partner is being involved in the demand for permanent support for fine arts by the government. Members active in the fight go around their community spreading the knowledge to others, gaining more support, and standing up for the support of the fine arts as a whole against the government for education and opportunities. Overall, fine arts are crucial to learning curriculum in which students have shown to be very successful in numerous ways. Fine arts as a whole has and will continue to play a major part in society. Students who participate in the arts learning have mastered other subjects and have gone on to become more successful outside of school; therefore, joining voices together is the best way to fight for the fine arts opportunities in America. Without the arts, the history and culture is completely taken away. As a whole, the Student 6 involvement in fine arts is what helps keep society energetic, healthy, and diverse. As Americans, think of the children and think about the rights they have towards fine arts learning and the opportunities that are given for them to become successful in the future. The arts have proven successful in growth and it is a contributing element to how America has become the great nation it is today. (Word Count: 1,737) Student 7 Work Cited Hawkins, Tyleah. less art and music in the classroom really help students soar The Washington Post, 28 Dec. 2012, https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/therootdc/post/will-less-art-and-music-in-the- classroom-really-help-students-soar-academically/2012/12/28/e18a2da0-4e02-11e2- Accessed 1 May 2017. a little about Americans for the Arts Action Fund, 2015, http://www.artsactionfund.org/about/about-us. Maguire, Cindy. a life one has reason to value: the role of the arts in fostering capability development in four small urban high Cambridge Journal of Education, vol. 42, no. 3, 2012, pp. 367-390. Arts Education Partnership, 2017, http://www.aep-arts.org/about- aep/missionoverview/. National Art Education Association. of Fine Arts for High School Graduation https://arteducators-prod.s3.amazonaws.com/documents/188/5d1f4c5b- ee8a-4dce-93ba-22aaedd0cf87.pdf?1451956644. pdf. Reeder, Laura. Yes We Teaching Artist Journal, vol. 7, no. 2, 2009, pp. 115- 122. Ruppert, Sandra. Evidence: How the ARTS Benefit Student National Assembly of State Art Agencies, 2006, pp. 1-17. Zalewski, Leanne. art collections- United Journal of the History of Collections, vol. 27, no. 1, 2015, pp. 49-55.