Student 1 Student Professor Gaspar ENC 1102 2 May 2017 Help Eliminate Depression Depression effects about 6.9% of the entire United States population, which comes out the be about 16 million adults (ADAA). Due to the alarming number of individuals that deal with depression there is an equally high number of treatment options available. Stakeholders all over the world discuss these statistics that define depression, especially the Anxiety and Depression Association of America who is a major stakeholder. The ADAA presents a page which shows shocking facts about depression. Since each individual is different there can never be too many stakeholders that are working towards helping to treat someone suffering with depression. Even though there are so many people that suffer with depression, it is still hard sometimes for some individuals to come forward and say they have depression in fear that they may seem weak. In contrast, it has been proven that 70-90% saw improvement in their mental health after participating in some form of treatment (E-COMPARED). With such a high percent increase in mental health the number of stakeholders can never be too many, and therefore this depression conversation can take as many stakeholders as possible whether they just create a blog for people who suffers with depression to talk or a health clinic. Depression affects 40 million adults in the United States age 18 and older (Gilbert, Depression). Depression is defined as the feeling of severe despondency and dejection. These statistics on depression become even more alarming when surveys look into students in college. Student 2 30% of college students reported feeling depressed, which disrupted their ability to function in school (Gilbert. Depression). These anxiety types of disorders are highly treatable, yet only about one-third of those suffering receive treatment. New statistics continue to annually come out that show how depression at all ages continues to increase. These feelings that cause depression can come from stress, work, school, personal experiences, or traumatic events in life. With so many things that can trigger depression it is not a wonder that depression rates continue to rise as society continues to make individuals compare themselves to others. The prevalence of depression is not just going to magically go away, the statistics will always be there. Therefore, any help can improve the statistics, even if that help is just stakeholders providing a blog for people with depression to talk to each other. With Netflix, the internet, TED talks, and the hundreds of social media sites out there, there is an unlimited number of blogs and stories. Recently, Netflix released their own series which has become insanely popular for Netflix users that discusses depression through the eyes of a girl who committed suicide because of her depression. The show, 13 Reasons Why, shows 13 cassette tapes that the main character, Hannah Baker, recorded before her suicide that discussed the 13 people that led her to become depressed and why she killed herself. The show portrays a deep meaning other than just depression, but has brought interest about depression onto Twitter, Facebook and other social medias the importance of talking to someone if they or someone they know is suffering from depression that has escalated so far to thinking about suicide. This show has brought to light a lot of issues with depression especially on young students and how help and treatment is available. However, if more stakeholders and organizations would join the conversation in helping individuals dealing with depression maybe the numbers could decrease and less young kids who have their whole life ahead of them will not Student 3 commit suicide. Additionally, TED talks, a nonprofit organization that helps spreads ideas through speeches, has released multiple speeches from people who have suffered with depression. The individuals discussed how depression is a lonely dark spiral until that individual finally chooses they want to live a better life and try to fix their issues (TED, 4 TED Talks on Overcoming ). Overall, with social media and more people coming out about depression, there is no reason that more organizations should not get involved to help these people, adults or kids, suffering with depression who are too scared to talk about it. This prevalent issue amoungst every age group will continue to rise if more stakeholders and organizations do not come forward and show their support for helping individuals dealing with depression. This does not mean they need to create a million-dollar health clinic to help treat patients. Their engagement in the conversation could be something as simple as creating a website with blogs for people suffering with depression can use to communicate and talk to each other to realize they are not alone, such as the blog Daisies and Bruises (The Art of Living with Depression). Along with this, the stakeholders can create advertisements telling these people dealing with depression that might be too scared to come forward that they are not alone and they can help to make them happier. The creation of these simple forms of treatment can do a lot more than most think, because the failure to confront these problems and allow a place for people to talk about their issues will cause depression and suicide rates to increase. Therefore, if nonengaged stakeholders would choose to finally join the conversation whether that means creating some form of health clinic or just creating a blog for individuals to talk on, any action they can take to show these people suffering with depression that help is available can improve depression statistics. Student 4 As depression issues continue to become a more talked about and discussed issue, more stakeholders need to come forward and help these individuals suffering. With 18% of the population suffering with some type of depressive or anxiety disorder it is not like it is a rare problem people suffer with Even though there are so many people who deal with this, it is still difficult for some people to come forward and discuss their struggles. Therefore, any help that stakeholders can bring forward can help. Whether that be putting no money towards the issue and just creating a blog for people dealing with depression to talk to each other, or putting hundreds of thousands of dollars to the issue by creating a health clinic to help people. With such a higher percent increase in mental health after treatment the number of stakeholders can never be too many, and therefore this depression conversation can take as many stakeholders as possible whether they just create a blog for people who suffer with depression to talk or a health clinic. (WC:1222) Student 5 Work Cited Depression : A Cognitive Therapy Approach. [San Francisco, California, : Kanopy Streaming, 2014., 2014. EBSCOhost Gilbert, Paul. Depression. [Electronic : The Evolution of Powerlessness. London ; New York : Routledge, 2017., 2017. Routledge mental health classic edition. EBSCOhost.  E-COMPARED. N.p., 2015. Web. 29 Mar. 2017. Hotline  Depression Statistics - Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. Real Men Real Depression: Public Service  Real Men Real Depression: Public Service Announcements Suicide Prevention Resource Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Mar. 2017. Ted. 4 TED Talks on Overcoming  Overcoming Depression Playlist TED.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Mar. 2017. The Art of Living with  Daisies and Bruises. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Mar. 2017.