Hamed 1 Ahmed Waleed Hamed Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 4/23/2017 Project 3 Anabolic steroids are synthetic stands of Testosterone that have been used by the bodybuilding community ever since their inception in the 1930s. Numerous big names such as Arnold Schwarzenegger, Dwayne Johnson, and Sylvester Stallone have all used anabolic steroids at one point in their career for the purpose of bodybuilding benefits. Ever since they were made illegal by the Anabolic Steroid Enforcement Act of 1990, steroids have had a highly controversial history in regards to the balance of their benefits and consequences. I believe that anabolic steroids are more detrimental rather than they are beneficial to the human body. Anabolic steroid usage has been correlated with many negative impacts on the human body. Steroids effect the human body on both physical and mental aspects as they destroy the body and the brain. Anabolic steroids are synthetic versions of the hormone Testosterone. This hormone is in charge of regulating muscle and bone mass in the human body. When the body has a large amount of Testosterone, it increases its ability to create more muscle fibers. However, this increase in muscle mass comes at a deadly cost. When the human body has an external source of any hormone, it begins to seize creation of said hormone organically. When a user takes synthetic Testosterone for even the smallest duration, he or she is damaging their ability to create the hormone. Thus, when one gets off the drug, Testosterone levels will drop and Hamed 2 destroy any muscle gains made while using the drug. Even worse, the body will have very hard time creating more muscle because of the lack of Testosterone the body will offer. In Kuiper Effects of Androgenic-Anabolic Steroids in , Hartgens establishes this huge folly in anabolic steroid use. steroids will increase the human ability to create muscle temporarily, however if usage continues the body will shut down its ability to produce Testosterone naturally and thus limit the ability to create muscle (Hartgens 513). The lack of organic Testosterone production creates numerous permanent setbacks for the ability to create new muscle fibers. Anabolic steroids also effect the human body on a psychological level. Due to the increase of Testosterone in the body after usage, the stamina level is increased to new heights that it could never reach without the steroids. However, many fail to realize the huge psychological drawbacks that come with these improvements. Anabolic steroid usage is correlated with significantly increased reactions to stressful stimuli. Steroids, will also cause numerous feelings of anger, depression, and shock in the user. In 2011, a group of sports medicine scientists designed an experiment in which they would give a group of female mice anabolic steroids for 9 weeks. Every week one of the scientists would play an acoustic stimulus for the mice. The mice that did not take any anabolic steroids showed no reaction to the stimulus, while the mice that did, reacted much more. The experiment concluded that steroid use by mice is associated with a range of behavioral effects, including increased anxiety and altered responses to stress. It has been shown that the mice were particularly susceptible to the effects of these (Beth A. Constine 1). This experiment illustrates one of the many negative psychological effects that anabolic steroid use could have on the human body. to increase their physical and sexual appeal. Hamed 3 Many bodybuilders will argue that anabolic steroids are beneficial rather than they are detrimental. These bodybuilders will state that anabolic steroids will significantly increase muscle mass and thus increase physical appeal. Female bodybuilders will state that anabolic steroids will help boost their results from the gym due to the large amounts of Testosterone, a hormone that is typically scarce in the female body. To negate these claims, the pro anabolic steroid argument is always supported by the short-term benefits of anabolic steroids that become completely overshadowed by medium to long term usage. For starters, bodybuilders believe that steroids will increase their physical appeal. Contrary to what many steroid users might believe, anabolic steroids WILL NOT increase physical appeal. The increased Testosterone in the body does increase muscle mass but has numerous other effects on the body. Among these effects are hives, acne breakouts, increased body hair, and even baldness. Females taking anabolic steroids grow large amounts of facial hair. Sports medicine scientists, David Jenkinson and Alisson Herbert explained why these occurrences happen in their journal American Family cause many hormones in the human body to increase to ridiculous plateaus that should not be possible for any normal person to reach. Due to this occurrence, the human body reacts to this large portion of hormones in many ways. The effects include acne breakouts, oily skin, hair loss, and for females, breast size (Jenkinson 5). Secondly, females are much more impacted by the negative effects of anabolic steroids. Short term usage has been correlated with numerous destructive attributes to the female anatomy. In the book, of Androgenic-Anabolic Steroids in sports scientist Hartgens Kuiper states: to the androgenic properties of steroids, women may experience side effects similar to symptoms males experience during Hamed 4 pubescent years, such as a deeper voice and increased body or facial hair. Steroid use may also cause unusual clitoris growth and baldness. breasts may reduce in size and some effects, such as voice changes, may be (Kuiper 543). After minor steroid use, the female body will begin to literally transform into that of a males due to the large amounts of Testosterone. Due to the large amount of anabolic steroid use going around in the bodybuilding and fitness industry. It is wise to obtain knowledge about this critical subject. Anabolic steroids are highly detrimental to the human body and should not be used under any circumstance for bodybuilding purposes. The human body should not have this enormous quantity of Testosterone in its system. Steroids have been proven to permanently damage the human body in many ways. Psychologically, they will induce feelings of stress, fear, anxiety and anger. Physically, anabolic steroids could cause body disfigurements, liver diseases, cancer, and a complete halt in the natural Testosterone production. Anabolic steroids will not increase muscle mass and they certainly will not enhance athletic focus during workouts. They will only destroy the human body inside and out, and halt any true progress that could have been made at the gym. Steroids are more detrimental rather than they are beneficial. Hamed 5 Work Cited 1. Kuiper, Hartgens F. Effects of Androgenic-Anabolic Steroids in  Sports Medicine 34.8 (2012): 513-54. Print 2. Jenkinson, David M., and Allison J. Harbert. Supplements and  Am Fam Physician, November 1, 2008, 1039-046. Print 3. Costine, Beth A., Donna M. Porter, and Joseph G. Oberlander. Chronic anabolic androgenic steroid exposure alters corticotrophin releasing factor expression and anxiety-like behaviors in the female  Psychoneureondocrinology 35.10 (2010): 1473-485. Print. 4. Lenehan, Pat. Anabolic Steroids and Other Performance-Enhancing Drugs. London: Taylor & Francis, 2003. Print