Ibarra 1 Ivan Ibarra Professor Bob Botkin ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Project 2 Essay In these pictures posted by Worker there are a group of migrant workers in the fields working while a plane sprays pesticides over them. In the second picture a man is depicted picking radishes and placing them into a bucket that has an American flag on it. I could say that the stake holder here is using pathos and ethos in multiple ways in these pictures. They use these photos in order to convey messages to their audiences that will ultimately have them moved to make a stand for the cause they are proposing. In the first picture there are half a dozen men in the frame in the fields working. There is a truck in the background and we also have a view of an airplane releasing some sort of liquid or gas. Analyzing this photo, a little further the men in the fields are harvesting crops, and the truck is where the crops that are harvested are placed. Also you then discover that the being sprayed down onto the fields are pesticides. Now this picture at first glance seem to have anything deeper than on the surface but when you understand the context of the situation Ibarra 2 depicted in the picture you can see the injustice that is happening. Now these pesticides hold harmful chemicals and are inheritably toxic because they are chemicals created to harm other organisms. Exposure and especially over exposure can pose and eminent threat to the health of the farm workers. There are so many ways that these farm workers can be exposed to the pesticides. For one, as depicted in the above photo the pesticides can be sprayed over the workers as they working and the pesticides will either be inhaled by the workers or will come in contact with their skin. Sometimes the airplanes spraying the pesticides will try to avoid spraying the pesticides over the farm workers but even then if there are mildly strong winds the pesticides can be blow onto the workers. Another way the farmers can be harmed by the pesticides is due to over exposure. Over exposure usually occurs when the farmers have to pick newly fertilized crops and they come in contact with the pesticides all day touching the fruit. Pesticides have short term and long term effects on people exposed to them. As described by Farm Worker Justice some short term effects include but are not limited to, eye irritation, dizziness, nausea and vomiting, and According to Farm worker justice some long term effects include neurological disorders, hormonal and reproductive health problems, birth defects and Farm workers only need to be exposed to the pesticides at a low level to obtain these long term effects. This photos purpose is to appeal to the emotions (pathos) by depicting a situation where people are blatantly being harmed while on the job in America. The viewer is meant to have sympathy for the farm workers and feel the urge to help in some way to stop this. Once the viewer has been interesting in learning more about this issue they would then look into the details of farm working. Once they have done this then they will feel obligated to do something. The purpose of the picture would then be fulfilled. The photos purpose to educate the public on everything the farm workers go through but to catch the Ibarra 3 attention of the viewer and have them question the situation being depicted. After the attention is caught and they realize what the airplane is spraying over the people is pesticides when the emotional aspect comes into play. also when the purpose of the picture is fulfilled. Following, the second photo uses similar appeals such as pathos to convey its meaning. The main difference between these two pictures is how this photo has a lot of symbolism rather than conveying an on the surface message like the first photo. The second photo is entirely in black and white. In this photo a man bent over is picking radishes and placing them into a bucket that is between his legs. The bucket between his legs has an American flag. covered from head to toe with a long sleeve shirt, jeans and a hat covering almost his entire body. Now the photo meant to be analyzed on the surface because there any injustices being depicted or anything more than a worker picking crops. What the viewer is supposed to do is recognize the little details in the photo that depict the message of this photo. For one, the photo is in black and white and that symbolizes so much. The black and white is supposed to take away any bias towards the situation or the viewers opinion. Often an audience will choose to sympathize with a group of people because they are of the same race or culture. Also the opposite can happen which an audience will choose not to sympathize with a certain group of people because of their race or cultural differences. So having this photo in black and white tries to eliminate that factor. It also tries to convey a message that this matter have anything to do with race/color and that it should be viewed as an issue for all to help. The second main message in this photo lies in one small yet massively important detail. This detail is the American flag that is on the bucket the man was putting the radishes into. This detail tries to have the viewer feel like the worker is a part of society, a part of the economy and a part of America. It supposed to show how these Ibarra 4 workers are working in America and for America. It is supposed to hit home that these people are in their communities working for the American people. It shows that the workers are working for the American dream and for the freedom and pride that comes with being an American. It shows how they are here to work and play a positive role in our society. That detail holds the message needed to be spread to the American people. Both of these photos do an excellent job in conveying their message through the use of rhetorical appeals, such as pathos, and symbolism. The first photos message and purpose was to show the injustice that happens to farm workers and have the audience feel sympathy for the workers in order to join the cause. It used a form of pathos to appeal to emotions in order to convey their message. The second photo took another route in trying to convey its meaning with symbolism. The second photos purpose and message was to empower the audience and make them feel like they had a responsibly as Americans to help an issue that was occurring in their backyard. All in all, the photos both had different ways in conveying their message but both had a common purpose which was to empower their audience to join their cause. Although the photos may not guarantee that the audience will join the cause they do however guarantee to make the audience more aware of the cause. Ibarra 5 Works Cited Productivity in the USDA ERS Agricultural Productivity in the U.S.N., n.d. Web. 03 Feb. 2017. Wages National Farm Worker Ministry. N.p., 03 Feb 2017. US Labor Laws For Farmworker Justice. Farmworker Justice, n.d. Web. Feb. 2017.