Rodhouse 1 Nick Rodhouse Professor Theodosiou ENC 1102 05/03/17 Cybersecurity: Are You Protected? In 2015, there was 70,000 samples of malware on Apple computers alone which are thought to be the most protected computers on the market. There were another 140 million samples on windows which goes to say that these threats are real (Techbeacon.com). The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) protects the United internet, but they cannot prevent every attack. That is why it is smart to have another personal security software on your computer to ensure your safety. Personally, I have fallen victim to an attack myself so do not think that this cannot happen to you. There is a high possibility that anyone can fall victim to these attacks. If people do not act soon, it is predicted that a total of 4 billion attacks will occur by 2019 (csonline.com). With cyberattacks increasing drastically over the past few years, it is necessary for internet users to use a security software that fits their interest. To better protect yourself research security programs; such as Bitdefender, Norton, and Bullguard; to find what security program best fits your interest. The government uses a team of cybersecurity specialists to hunt down threats and protect us from attacks. However, they cannot stop them all. A couple of the most common cybercrimes people fall victim to are identity theft and internet fraud. Identity theft is most often either someone pretending to be you online or for credit cards and loans (Most Common Computer Crimes). In 2016 15.4 million Americans lost a total of 16 billion dollars to identity fraud (Kassner). The FBI defines internet fraud as use of internet services or software with Rodhouse 2 internet access to defraud victims or to otherwise take advantage of (Internet Fraud). Fortune 500 tech companies have even recently fallen victim to internet fraud attacks. Greg Price, a reporter for newsweek.com, says and Google were reportedly swindled out of $100 million each over a two-year time period by a Lithuanian man who posed as an Asian manufacturing company and used the age-old method of (Price). Phishing is the act of sending emails pretending to be a reputable company to induce individuals to reveal information (dictionary.com). Randy Werner wrote in his article on how to prevent cyber-attacks that: Phishing or spoofing email that appears to come from a legitimate sender is often the result of a cybercriminal having hacked into the email account and taken it over, controlling messages coming from the account and enabling the hacker to convince the recipient that the email is friendly or trustworthy (Werner, 3) This just goes to show that anyone can fall victim to these crimes. Big companies can even get attacked for their wallet. In an article on cyber security Kenning Arlitsch said and Neiman Marcus department stores both acknowledged in December 2013 that hackers had stolen millions of their credit card data during the height of the holiday shopping (Arlitsch, 1) I personally have fallen victim to one of these attacks. I was buying a magazine subscription online, and in doing so I gave the company my credit card information, without checking how reliable this company was. A few days later I check my bank account and saw that it was significantly lower than I expected it to be, so I began to investigate my current charges. What I found was that the company I ordered a subscription from charged me three separate Rodhouse 3 times and hit me with 5 different Now I do not know whether those currency fees are legit, but do know that I was not supposed to be charged three times for that one subscription. That day I lost a total of $134.98 from my bank account, and I was devastated. This issue could have happened to anyone using the internet to purchase anything. A lot of people do not think that they need to worry about cyberattacks. They are either clueless to the fact that they are very much a threat, or they think it just will not happen to them. This is because these attacks are a recent thing that have just started popping up in this past millennium. If that story did not change your mind, maybe these statistics will to the Identity Theft Resource (ITRC) Data Breach Report, more than 29 million records were exposed in 858 publicized breaches across sectors including financial, government, health care and (20 Eye-opening Statistics). Securityintelligence.com also stated that year, IDG detected 38 percent more cybersecurity incidents than the year which means these incidents are become more and more of an issue. There is a very high chance that you will be, or have been, a victim of one of these crimes. Especially with malware being detected on 70,000 macs and 140 million windows. These attacks are very real. These attacks need to be stopped, if not today, then as soon as possible. Thomas Mowbray states in his book on cybersecurity that crime is one of the largest and fastest growing categories of With some segments growing 300 percent per he even later goes on to say that are good that your current organization is being attacked right (Mowbary, 3). The best way to prevent these is to increase the security with programs, such as Norton and other antivirus soft wares. Though they are labeled antivirus, they do a lot more than just stop malware. They advertise prevention against viruses and security against cyber-attacks. Norton says that it against viruses, spyware, malware, phishing, Rodhouse 4 trojan horses & other online and that they your identity, personal information and online (Norton by Symantec). Every computer has some basic security functions, but those functions are not enough to stop an attack. Therefore, it is necessary for internet users to use advance security programs to better protect themselves. The future holds more and more internet use, harnessing potential for more attacks. You should improve your security today rather than later, because later might be too late. Everyone needs a security program that best fits their needs and browsing habits. For example, businesses need far more extensive programs than the average web browser, and small businesses do not need as strong of a program as fortune 500 companies. Also, all these programs are going to cost a different price, and nobody wants to over pay for functions that they may never use. Johnson A Thomas, the author of the book cybersecurity, says is critical to asses and measure the cost of cybersecurity and the range of the (Johnson, 256) in his chapter on the economics of this issue. He goes on to say how you basically do not want to be paying more for security than you can possibly lose. To ensure that you get a program that best fits your needs and interests, research some of the many antivirus options out there. They have options suitable for almost anyone. Someone with a large budget and high risk of attacks may want to invest in Bitdefender. Bitdefender has the strongest security system making it great for small businesses as well as personal users looking for a profound security system. Someone looking for a strong, basic security plan might like to consider investing in Norton. Lastly someone looking for a cheap way to beef up their security should research Bullguard. If you cannot afford any of these programs, but have some loose change around and want to better the safety, donate to the National Security Agency (NSA) or the DHS to better this nations cybersecurity. Rodhouse 5 The United government has cybersecurity programs to protect us from some attacks, however due to the vast number of threats, a lot of these attacks make it through. The government simply cannot stop them all. Cyberattacks are at an all-time high recently, and you and everyone around you needs protection. I have fallen victim to these attacks, so you can as well. With cyberattacks increasing drastically over the past few years, it is necessary for internet users to use a security software that fits their interest. To better protect yourself research security programs; such as Bitdefender, Norton, and Bullguard; to find what security program best fits your interest. Rodhouse 6 Work Cited Arlitsch, Kenning, and Adam Edelman. Staying Safe: Cyber Security for People and  Journal of Library Administration54.1 (2014): 46-56. Web. 03 May 2017. Csonline.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. TechBeacon.com TechBeacon. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Internet  FBI. FBI, 31 May 2016. Web. 03 May 2017. Johnson, Thomas A. Cybersecurity: Protecting Critical Infrastructures from Cyber Attack and Cyber Warfare. Boca Raton (Fla.): CRC, 2015. Print. Kassner May 1, 2017, 6:39 AM PST, Michael. Identity Theft Is Alive and Fraudsters Keep Getting  TechRepublic. N.p., 01 May 2017. Web. 03 May 2017. Mowbray, Thomas J. Cybersecurity: Managing Systems, Conducting Testing, and Investigating Intr. Self Contained, John Wiley & Sons, 2013, New Jersey Print.  Dictionary.com. Dictionary.com, n.d. Web. 03 May 2017. Price, Greg. How Facebook and Google Were Robbed of $100 Million by a  Newsweek.Newsweek LLC, 03 May 2017. Web. 03 May 2017. Norton by  Norton Security - Our Best Protection for Your Windows PC or Mac. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. What Are The Most Common Computer Crimes and The Penalties In  Law Office Of Acacia Law Group. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 May 2017. Werner, Randy. to Protect Against Common Cyberattacks and Insure Against Potential CPA Journal, March 2017: 16-21. Web. 03 May 2017 Rodhouse 7 20 Eye-Opening Cybercrime  Security Intelligence. N.p., 14 Nov. 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.