Boucher1 NRDC Advertising Pollution from the burning of fossil fuels, as well as its lack of sustainability, has become a cause for concern to many. Carbon dioxide is just one of many dangerous chemicals released in abundance during the burning of various fossil fuels, especially coal. One such danger is illustrated in, Multiple Threats to Child Health from Fossil Fuel Combustion: Impacts of Air Pollution and Climate Change. In the article, prospective study of almost 2,000 schoolchildren found that children exposed to higher levels of air pollution, including NO2 and PM2.5, had significantly lower lung function growth at 18 years of age, an age when the lungs are nearly mature and lung function deficits are unlikely to be The NRDC (the Natural Resource Defense Council), is an environmental group. Their About Us tells of how they the rights of all people to the air, the water, and the This group wants to get rid of fossil fuels altogether, and make them obsolete. They often get quite active, such as how they advocated for cutting the carbon pollution that power plants are allowed by law to make. The NRDC has multiple images on social medias, including Instagram, that utilize rhetoric appeals to move people against the big companies that support the usage of fossil fuels such as coal. In the first image, the first thing to really grab attention is the quote as it takes up most of the image. need an EPA that will keep pushing our economy forward, not We cannot afford a future where we cede the enormous opportunities presented by clean energy to our competitors Before even looking at the content, the quote invokes ethos; it borrows credibility from the speaker of the quote, in this case Rose Marcario. As the CEO of the company Patagonia, it can be assumed that her words are reliable. Additionally, her statement not only carries weight from her as a person, but also as a representative of the company. This company, Patagonia, deals primarily on the sale of clothing; specifically, those for outdoor activities like hiking. According to their website, they are also very environmentally conscious and state, donate our time, services and at least 1% of our Boucher2 sales to hundreds of grassroots environmental groups all over the The fact that they support the environment so publicly greatly attributes to the images credibility. Pathos can be seen in the wording of the quote. summons forth a national pride which gives the reader a sense of obligation to look into this matter. Upon analyzing the quotation, the wording seems to carry a sense of urgency. It talks of a future we afford, which gives the feeling of act now and save the EPA. The feeling that time is of the essence is portrayed, which is a prime example of kairos. This gets the audience to go out and find out more about the EPA as well as explore the possibilities of clean energy as soon as possible. It is quite logical as well; after all, why would anyone want to miss opportunities like those of clean energy. This, however leads to a false dilemma logical fallacy. Just because the EPA is shut down mean clean energy will be completely ignored. likely there will be an impact but that mean there more possible courses of action. Besides the quote, the background image also conveys pathos. The blues combined with the mountains give off a sense of tranquility that people will be hesitant to disturb. Image number two lacks ethos and logos, instead focusing primarily on pathos. The whole picture seems to be about manipulating feelings. Without even looking at the subject matter pathos is discovered; the photo has a sepia tinge to it which emotionally conveys a serious tone right of the bat. In other words, it conveys that this pollution is a serious matter. Then, the contrast of the factories to the plains makes an impact. Surely those giant smoke emitters should not be allowed so close to the nice horses and pretty flowers. People have their emotions to protect those flowers and horses manipulated to into a desire to get rid of the fuel burning factory causing the polluting smoke. Additionally, their close proximity can lead to the train of thought that very soon that natural area in the picture will be destroyed. This gives a real sense of Kairos. Basically, act now and switch to clean energy or the horses are doomed. This however has the clear makings of a logical fallacy. Specifically, it is an example of a Boucher3 hasty generalization. Displayed is just one location, however just looking at this one photo could lead to the idea that this is happening everywhere. That idea though, is in no way supported be the image. In all, these images each go against fossil fuel companies in their own ways. The first promotes clean energy with its opportunities for a better future. The second discourages anything that produces horse killing smoke, such as burning coal. Despite those differences and the way they get those ideas across, be it logic and credibility or emotion, the NRDC gets their ideas across to anyone with the time to look at a photo. Boucher4 Works Cited NRDC. https://www.nrdc.org/. Accessed 27 February 2017. Patagonia. http://www.patagonia.com/company-info.html. Accessed 11 March 2017. Perera, Frederica. Multiple Threats to Child Health from Fossil Fuel Combustion: Impacts of Air Pollution and Climate Change. Environmental Health Perspectives. Feb2017, Vol. 125 Issue 2, p141-148. Web Boucher5