Aggad 1 Tareq Aggad Professor Erika Staiger ENC 1101 04 /16 /2017 The Advocacy towards Safe Abortion Unsafe abortion is a dire element influencing a high proportion of women around the globe. Unsafe abortion can be defined as the procedure in which unqualified practitioners or individuals preform illegal abortions. Unconventional abortion also occurs when women use improper methods to end pregnancies. For instance, unsafe abortion happens as pregnant women try to terminate their pregnancies by using herbal combinations or drinking toxic fluids. Unsafe abortion can cause future reproductive problems in women who survive unsafe abortion. Hence, there is a distinct need to form a comprehensive access to reproductive health care to diminish the reproductive complications of unsafe abortion. Although multiple organizations supporting accessible abortion such as Planned Parenthood have been defunded, there can be attempts made to enhance the access to reproductive care and safe abortion. USF students are strongly encouraged to take stands supporting a wide accessibility to safe abortion. This can be fulfilled through sending donation to Planned Parenthood and IPAS in order to provide reproductive health care for a higher proportion of women. The major reason why abortion should be safe and legal is to compact the high rates of maternal deaths and reproductive consequences. In particular, high percentages of maternal deaths have been attributed to unsafe practices to end pregnancies. The article Aggad 2 Unsafe Abortion: Unnecessary Maternal written by Lisa B Haddad, who has acquired a certificate in obstetrics and gynecology, discusses the relationship between unsafe abortion and the accompanied implications afterwards. Haddad writes, Some 68,000 women die of unsafe abortion annually, making it one of the leading causes of maternal mortality (13 (Haddad 2). This quote vividly indicates that unsafe procedures of abortion are associated with high rates of maternal deaths. Furthermore, different reproductive complications resulted from unsafe abortion have taken place in the current time period. The article Unsafe Abortion. The Preventable written by David Grimes, who works in the department of gynecology in University of Carolina, establishes a correlation between abortion and related effects. According to the article, although unsafe abortion may not cause maternal deaths, it has a strong potential to induce health complications such as trauma, abdominal organs infections. Grimes says, high proportion of women (20 percent to 50 percent who have unsafe abortions are hospitalized for (Grimes 3). As can be seen, while unsafe abortion accounts for high rates of maternal deaths, it also accounts for other health complications. The most effective way to alleviate this issue is to make reproductive care more accessible for women. The inaccessibility to safe abortion occurs when women are not able to reach out health specialists for safe abortion procedures. This can be noticed when women can not afford the cost of legitimate abortion or can not access healthcare provider in the area. For example, as the number of legal health facilities remains inadequate in several regions, women are compelled to have unsafe abortion preformed by private practitioners. The study New Estimates And Trend Regarding Unsafe Abortion written by Elizabieth Ahman, who works in the world health Aggad 3 organization in Switzerland, aims towards analyzing the causes and effects of practices for pregnancies termination. As indicated by Ahman, When faced with an unwanted pregnancy and safe and legal abortion is unavailable or difficult to access, many women turn to unskilled providers or attempt to abort on their ( Ahman 4). With this being said, it can be vividly seen that a higher accessibility to reproductive care, including safe abortion, will eliminate the main factor of unsafe abortion. In fact, the article Unsafe abortion: the preventable suggests the expansion of reproductive services as an effective way to compact illegal practices. Grimes suggests, when abortion is made legal, safe, and easily accessible, health rabidly improves. By contrast, women health deteriorates when access to safe abortion is made more difficult or (Grimes 6). Hence, it is highly projected that a sharp decrease of maternal complications would be noticed with a higher accessibility to reproductive care. Young women in USF are highly vulnerable to reproductive complications, which includes unsafe practices to terminate pregnancies. Women in young age often face barriers such as high costs when reaching out health specialists in regard with reproductive needs. Consequently, this prompts high rates of illegal practices, which endanger their lives or their educational paths. The article Incidence of Unsafe written by Alan Richard, who acquired a PhD degree in reproductive biology, reveals a significant correlation between the occurrences of unsafe abortion and young women. Richard writes, Two in five unsafe abortions occur among women under the age 25, and about one in seven women who have unsafe abortions is under (Ricahrd 3). As can be seen, women in young ages are highly exposed to unsafe methods to end pregnancies, which result in following complications. Since the female population Aggad 4 constitutes the majority of USF students, the risks of reproductive complications increase among USF population. According to US News, the number of female students makes up 55 percent of the total population in USF (US News). With this being said, there is a significant need that the population of USF takes effective stances towards the issue. Although the male population is not directly involved, it can contribute against the issue since males have relatives or sisters, who may be affected by the issue. While unsafe abortion may directly impact USF students, it may also affect relatives or sisters of these students in other nations. According to international students from 139 countries make up 30 percent of total population in USF (College Data). Since USF has a diverse population consisting of many nationalities, the issue affects a broader scope concerning USF students. In particular, students coming from various nations can be socially or emotionally affected as their relatives in other countries undergo reproductive complications. High rates of unsafe abortion have been recorded in different countries, which tie with USF students. The article Unsafe Abortion: Worldwide estimates for written by Elizabieth Ahman examines different trends between many countries in which unsafe abortion rabidly occurs. According to Ahman, In Latin America and the Caribbean, 3.7 million unsafe abortions are estimated to take place each (Ahman 2). In this example, Latin America is a country affected by unsafe abortion, which connects with USF students. According to Latin Americans approximately constitute 21 percent of the total USF population (College Data). Therefore, Latin Americans students in USF can be indirectly affected as unsafe abortion rabidly occurs in their countries. Similarly, USF students from Asia tie with the issue as their relatives in Asia may undergo unsafe abortion and health complications. Aggad 5 Grimes in his article Unsafe abortion: The preventable writes, Almost all unsafe abortions ( 97 percent) are in developing countries, and over half ( 55 percent) are in ( Grimes 5). These findings suggest that the international body in USF has to be engaged and take stances towards the issue. USF students can contribute to alleviate the issue of unsafe abortion and its accompanied effects through donations given to IPAS and Planned Parenthood. As the inaccessibility to comprehensive reproductive care remains the major reason of unsafe abortion and maternal deaths, there is a distinct need to expand and strengthen the accessibility to reproductive health in different countries. This can be fulfilled through donations sent to IPAS and Planned Parenthood. Compacting unsafe abortion, these organizations have been concentrating their efforts towards accessible reproductive care. According to IPAS and Planned Parenthood, the donations received are used to train medical care workers specialized in reproductive care. Also, donations are used to collaborate with local advocates in various parts of the world to support the accessibility to reproductive health. Therefore, USF students are strongly encouraged to donate to these organizations through their websites to mitigate the issue of unsafe abortion. While the focus of Planned Parenthood may be more local, IPAS concentrates its efforts on different parts of the globe where women face barriers in accessing reproductive care. This will effectively help USF students since USF population consists of both Americans and international students. With Planned Parenthood being locally specialized on the issue, American students would benefit from its efforts. In contrast, since IPAS is an international organization working globally, international students can have a stronger contribution to resolve the issue in their countries. Aggad 6 Since many students in USF may have a limited budget, they can still contribute by donating with minimal amount of money, encouraging their friends and family members to donate. Since USF has a high number of students enrolled on campus, minimal amount of 1 dollar donation will be sufficient to support these organizations. In fact, USF has an enrollment of 50,000 students (College Data). Therefore, if only a quarter of this population donates with 1 dollar, 15,000 dollar will support the accessibility to reproductive health. Besides minimal donations, students can also encourage their friends from outside USF or family members to donate to these organizations. Since USF students have acquired knowledge about the topic, they are able to spread awareness to their relatives and friends regarding the issue. This way, the amount of donations collected from USF students will increase as their relatives and friends also contribute. In conclusion, it can be seen that unsafe abortion has resulted in high rates of maternal deaths and reproductive complications. Although many countries have liberal abortion laws, women still lack accessibility to reproductive care in regard with pregnancies termination. In regard with this issue, young women are found to be more vulnerable to reproductive complications resulted from improper practices to end pregnancies. This indicates that the issue can affect USF population, which includes a large body of females. The diversity of USF also creates a further engagement in which international students can contribute to diminish the issue in their countries. The support from USF students can be through donations given to IPAS and Planned Parenthood. While Planned Parenthood facilitates the engagement of American students, IPAS would be an effective conduit between the support of international students and their countries. Aggad 7 Work Cited Ahman, Elisabeth. New estimates and trends regarding unsafe abortion  International Journal of Gynecology & Obstetrics 115.2 (2011): 121-26. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Ahman, Elisabeth. Unsafe Abortion: Worldwide Estimates for  Reproductive Health Matters 10.19 (2002): 13-17. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. College Search, Financial Aid, College Application, College Scholarship, Student Loan, FAFSA, Common  College Data. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Grimes, David. Unsafe abortion: the preventable  The Lancet 368.9550 (2006): 1908-919. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Haddad, Lisa. Unsafe Abortion: Unnecessary Maternal  Journal of Reproductive Health 8.1 (2004): 57. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. News, Rankings and Analysis on Politics, Education, Healthcare and  U.S. News & World Report. U.S. News & World Report, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Richard, Alan. Incidence of Unsafe  Journal of Advanced Nursing 68.6 (2011): 1247-255. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.