Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 30 April 2017 Prostitution: Reclaiming Female Sexuality and Sexual Autonomy Within the scope of modern feminism, perhaps no profession has elicited such divisive opinions as prostitution. Prostitution as a field of work is one that is celebrated by some as an expression of female sexuality and sexual autonomy, or a ability to engage in sexual activity without societal stigma, while shunned by others, who would consider prostitution to be one of the most damaging systems of oppression affecting women today. To pinpoint the circumstances in which this conversation occurs, it is first necessary to define what is considered feminism. Feminism is a movement that can be traced back to at least the early twentieth century, where its first historical division, or was associated with the goal of suffrage. Since then, feminism has experienced a a period which is generally associated with the 1960s and the sexual revolution, wherein women and other social groups made advances towards destigmatizing sexuality by normalizing birth control, the practice of sexual activity before marriage, etc.. Following this came third-wave feminism, which is often given a time frame from the 1980s to the present. It is within second- and third-wave feminism that this conversation takes place, with prostitution being directly rooted in modern attitudes towards female sexuality. For the sake of convenience, the movement-specific terms and will Student 2 be used here. Radical feminists are those feminists who oppose any attempts at exerting control over female sexuality, in which they view prostitution as a system of oppression that should be eradicated. Conversely, sex-positive feminists support the reversal of prostitution as a criminal offense, in their wider pursuit of removing any stigmas attached to female sexuality or sex workers as a whole (Comte 197-201). The term is also used here to avoid possible stigmas attached to the use of the term, Finally, although radical feminists would seek to abolish prostitution, viewing it as subordinating and exerting control over women, it is essentially a practice that allows women to express their sexual autonomy, while reclaiming female sexuality as a whole. For this, among other reasons, it is a profession that rather than being abolished, should be respected like any other. The philosophical positions of radical feminists in opposition to prostitution can be succinctly summarized in three key arguments: Essentially, radical feminists conclude that when sex workers engage in prostitution, they are not simply offering sexual services in exchange for payment, but rather they are putting a price to their own degradation (Anderson 752). From a radical feminist perspective, requiring women to temporarily fix as an object [of sexual prostitution permanently, completely and literally extinguishes as a (Davidson 92). Additionally, radical feminism is often oriented towards Marxist interpretations, in which radical feminists position prostitution as an institution indicative of economic and/or social inequalities that they view as inherent within the relationship of a sex worker to their potential client(s). Furthermore, instead of simply representing a relationship that is unequal in social power or societal agency, radical feminists recognize prostitution as having been instrumental in creating and sustaining these marked inequalities in the first place Student 3 (Anderson 752). Judith Walkowitz, a feminist historian that has been active in the feminist movement since at least second-wave feminism, notes that prostitution has aroused suspicion from radical feminists from the late 1970s onward, who believed that it resulted in the commodification of the sexual experience. During this period of the sexual revolution, feminists and particularly radical feminists were working to actively liberate and equalize the sexual experience, especially female sexuality (Walkowitz 189-191). However, a considerable amount of radical feminist argumentation against prostitution will prove to have been biased in its one-sidedness. Some of the most crucial factors excluding those sex workers that would align themselves with a sex-positive feminist interpretation are both misrepresentation and underrepresentation. Historically, public events hosting discussions between feminists and sex workers have been ongoing since at least 1986, when an event known as the World Whores took place in Ontario, Canada. At this event, sex workers publicly scrutinized radical feminists as having analyzed the sex points of view without having consulted them first about their own personal experiences. At the time, those sex workers chose not to identify themselves personally as feminists on account of their experiences being explicitly overlooked, although they with feminist values such as independence, financial autonomy, sexual self-determination, personal strength, and female (Kesler 220). Even so, this would certainly not be the last instance in which radical feminists would create division through misrepresenting sex workers and their profession. In continuing to fight for both recognition and equal representation, radical feminists have been criticized by sex-positive feminists for misleadingly arguing against so-called Student 4 prostitution. In focusing their efforts on condemning street prostitution, radical feminists have committed the fallacy of hasty generalization, through applying their analysis of street prostitution to prostitution in its full capacity as a profession. Street prostitution cannot be fairly critiqued as a holistic representation of prostitution though, and moreover, accounts of street prostitution have an overwhelming tendency to emphasize violence and exploitation in their own right. Even if one were to further consider prostitution to be a commodification of the sexual experience, it could still be argued that in order to understand the widespread commodification of sex, one needs to look no further in society than areas such as the advertising industry (Kesler 233). In an anecdotal study conducted in San Francisco where sex workers were interviewed about their profession, it should be noted that safety and as well as ability to build community with other sex were cited by some workers as legitimate reasons for supporting the decriminalization of sex work (Lutnick and Cohan 41-43). A sizable majority, or at least 83 percent of the workers interviewed, also expressed interest in regulated and mandatory health screenings in order to ensure the safest working conditions possible (Lutnick and Cohan 41-43). Though of course a sample cannot be understood as representing the entire population of sex workers, it would nevertheless be reasonable to assume that based on the sex workers interviewed in San Francisco, through their bonds of community and strengthening of their own sexual self-determination, sex workers would represent an expression of feminist values (Kesler 220). Thus, prostitution as a profession is not only compatible with feminism, but an expression of feminist principles in its own right. By allowing women to reclaim female sexuality and express their own decisions in regard to how they navigate their sexual autonomy, Student 5 it is a profession that should be respected like any other. Through reclaiming their societal agency and sexual autonomy in practicing prostitution, sex workers not only help to destigmatize the practice and female sexuality, but also work to actively refute any possible notions of control over women. Liberating female sexuality at the individual level, with sex workers serving as representatives, provides all women with the benefit of a newly defined sexual experience that is without stigma or shame. In resisting the urge to align themselves with a radical feminist definition of what is acceptable for female sexuality, women also avoid the risk of running into new barriers by potentially trading one current, confined expression of sexuality for the next. True sexual liberation is a possible endeavor, but by definition it can only come about through women making a conscious decision to define their own limits of their individual sexual identities. (Word Count: 1,242 words.) Student 6 Works Cited Anderson, Scott A. and Sexual Autonomy: Making Sense of the Prohibition of vol. 112, no. 4, 2002, p. 752. Web. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Comte, Jacqueline. of sex work: Feminist discourses in light of Sexuality & Culture: An Interdisciplinary vol. 18, no. 1, 2014, pp. 197-201. Web. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Davidson, Julia Rights and Wrongs of vol. 17, no. 2, 2002, p. 92. Web. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Kesler, Kari. a Feminist Stance in Support of Prostitution Possible? An Exploration of Current vol. 5, no. 2, 2002, pp. 220-233. Web. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Lutnick, Alexandra, and Deborah Cohan. legalization or decriminalization of sex work: what female sex workers say in San Francisco, Health vol. 17, no. 34, 2009, pp. 41-43. Web. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Walkowitz, Judith R. Politics of Prostitution and Sexual Workshop vol. 82, no. 1, 2016, pp. 189-191. Web. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017.