Ciabaton 1 George Ciabaton Composition 2 Professor De Carion 16 April 2017 Juvenile Justice Reform Is it morally right to force an adolescent to serve time in prison throughout their adulthood for an offense they committed as a minor? This controversial question has been answered by many government officials which explains why the U.S. juvenile system has been so geared to providing punishment for juvenile offenders rather than focusing more on rehabilitation. If the government increased the funding of rehabilitation programs it could be the difference in determining whether or not these juvenile offenders can receive the care that they deserve to prepare them to reenter their home environment with a mindset and support system that can keep them out of trouble. Meanwhile, if policies continue to be implemented that can decrease the amount of time youth spend in adult prisons, individuals can have more hope and encouragement to get their life together. Plus, a decrease in juvenile incarceration can benefit the issue of prison overcrowding which is currently relevant in many prisons all around the United States. The juvenile justice system in the U.S. needs to focus more on improving methods of rehabilitation and less on the enforcement of punishment. The fact that there are such large numbers of youth who are incarcerated or on probation for crimes in this country could almost put the issue of youth crime as an epidemic. In order to get an idea of the current capacity of juvenile correctional facilities in the U.S., 57,000 youth are confined in juvenile detention and correctional facilities and hundreds of Ciabaton 2 thousands more are on (Hockenberry). In an attempt to make positive progress toward reducing this epidemic of youth crime, improved rehabilitation programs need to be established. A program called Overarching Case Management was developed based off lots of research and experimentation to try and come up with the most successful modes of rehabilitation (Altschuler and Bilchuk). Some of the key components that were discovered include sanctions and incentives, realistic and enforceable post-release conditions, and links to community resources and non-correctional youth-serving systems, such as education, child welfare, employment, housing, behavioral health, and physical health If these strategies toward successful rehabilitation were implemented more often there would most definitely be a decrease in prevalence of youth repeat- offenders. Additionally, there have been credible studies conducted that show how longer sentences in juvenile and adult correctional facilities do not reduce recidivism (re-arrest) rates. Some examples of this includes a combining the results of juvenile and adult studies found that longer sentences were associated with a small increase in and an Ohio study which found that placed in state facilities for longer periods had higher rates of re-incarceration than did those held for shorter Juvenile These results show that increased punishment is not very effective in reducing youth crime and preventing youth offenders from committing more crimes later in their life. Meanwhile, that same Ohio study showed that recidivism rates tended to be lower for the youth who were supervised in the community when compared to the youth who were kept in community correctional facilities Juvenile This is because the community supervision allowed environmental factors of the living situations to better be taken in consideration. Meanwhile, the staff in charge of the youth who are locked up in a Ciabaton 3 facility away from their home do not have as good of an opportunity to train the youth to adjust back to their old environment seeing that they experience it at first hand. Furthermore, throughout history there have been many injustices associated with the U.S. juvenile system which provide evidence that the current juvenile sentencing laws need to be reformed. For example, the book With A written by Jean Trounstine consists of an actual account of the life of Karter Reed who was convicted of murder and sentenced to life in adult prison at the age of 16. He grew up in a town with a high crime rate without a father who was in prison and an alcoholic mother (Trounstine). At the age 16, he stabbed and accidentally killed a boy with a knife who was abusing him and his friends (Trounstine). Unfortunately for him, his arrest was before the 2012 US Supreme Court case Miller v. Alabama which ruled that sentencing juveniles to life behind bars without the possibility of parole violated the constitutional ban on cruel and unusual punishment (Russel). However, even though this amendment was passed, and state legislatures responding to Miller have assumed that a judge can impose life without parole on a juvenile, as long as the judge has discretion to impose a less severe (Russel). The combination of the vagueness in which this amendment was written and the interpretation of it that many state courts have adopted has prevented it from being as effective as it could have been in reducing the length of juvenile sentencing. This allows for more cases to occur in which people like Carter will have to spend a good portion of their adult life in prison for a crime they committed as an adolescent. A huge portion of these youth offenders were brought up in hostile environments surrounded by drugs, crime, and poverty. This does not give adolescents growing up in those types of environments the excuse to commit heinous crimes such as murder. However, it does tend to play a vital part in why the youth committed the offense in the first place. Ciabaton 4 There are a variety of ways in which people can get involved to play a role in the reform of the current U.S. juvenile justice system. Registering to vote could potentially allow an individual to vote on issues concerning juvenile sentencing on a local, state, or national level. People can make donations to or get involved with organizations such as Campaign For Youth Justice which aims to reduce the number of youth who are tried, sentenced, and incarcerated in the adult system and Organizations like Campaign For Youth Justice have opportunities for people to volunteer or become directly involved with their organization. Becoming a volunteer at a local juvenile detention center or mentoring at-risk youth offenders in the local community are both excellent ways in which someone can directly make a positive effect on juveniles. Whether they are tutoring, advising, or serving as a positive role model and friend to a youth, they can make a positive difference to a population of youth who are oftentimes overlooked in society. Overall, the juvenile justice system needs to be reformed in a way in a way that involves reducing the lengths of youth sentences and increasing the use of effective rehabilitation. Reducing juvenile sentencing will better allow the U.S. to reduce the already overwhelmingly large prison population and make positive progress on reducing youth crime seeing that studies have shown that imprisonment and decreased recidivism do not correlate. Increasing the use of effective rehabilitation through the increase of governmental funding on rehabilitation and an improvement upon currently offered rehabilitation services for juvenile offenders would be the most effective way to decrease youth crime and inequalities. The inequalities that currently exist between youth who are brought up in high poverty and crime environments and youth raised in safe and financially stable neighborhoods can be reduced if rehabilitation actually manages to succeed in reducing the majority of youth offenders from becoming adult prisoners. The Ciabaton 5 encouragement of pursuing higher education and getting a job can be the difference in whether a youth offender ends up spending their adult life in jail or succeeding in the work force. Works Cited Altschuler, David and Bilchik, Shay. Elements of Juvenile Reentry in Research and The Council of State Governments Justice Center, April 2014, https://csgjusticecenter.org/youth/posts/critical-elements-of-juvenile-reentry-in-research- and-practice/ Hockenberry, Sarah. Federal Interagency Reentry Council, (June 2014): 1, http://bit.ly/10SXYq0 Russel, Sarah. SENTENCING AND JUVENILES: EIGHTH AMENDMENT LIMITS AND SIXTH AMENDMENT Boston College Law Review; 2015, Vol. 56 Issue 2, p553-615, 63p Trounstine, Jean. With A 2016. Text and Campaign For Youth Justice. http://www.campaignforyouthjustice.org/about-us/mission-and-goals, 2005. Juvenile The Pew Charitable Trusts, April 2015 Ciabaton 6