Sanders 1 Zachary Sanders Harley Campbell ENC 1102 097 April 30 2017 A FUTURE FREE FROM GUN (CSGV) With all the constant commercials and stories of more shootings, almost everyone in the United States knows what the second amendment is, the right to bear arms. Gun control is very controversial today with more shootings nearly every time you turn on the news. When the second amendment was written, it was a much simpler time and loading a gun could take upwards of five minutes just to get one bullet to fire. Contrary to modern machine guns which can easily fire more than nine rounds every second (BMG.) This causes huge amounts of controversy over how the politicians and law makers should interpret the constitution, and what it determines as a firearm being needed for self-defense. Lots of Americans believe that the second amendment is irrelevant today, and firearms should be banned completely, as they do more harm than good, especially since they are exchanged so easily. There is absolutely no need for anyone to own and carry an AR-15 assault rifle in world. On the other side of the fence, there are also many Americans who believe that every citizen of the United States has the right to own a gun. Most people do believe that it would be much safer and have fewer gun violence incidents if background checks were required on ALL gun sales. As a nation, we need to work together to promote background checks on all gun sales in order to keep firearms out of the hands of criminals. That way, people are safe, while still given the rights given to them in the constitution. Sanders 2 Guns are not a modern invention, and therefore neither is the occurrence of gun violence. Guns have been around since the beginning of the country, and people have been committing crimes with guns since then. In 1993, president Bill Clinton signed the Brady law, which required Brady background checks on all firearms purchased from federal gun dealers (Background Checks). Brady background checks are more than just a typical check with the local police department. In a Brady background check, the retailer contacts the FBI when someone tries to purchase a weapon, and the FIB checks the checks the National Instant Criminal Background Check System to see if they are on the list of prohibited purchases (Background checks). Prohibited purchasers consist of people such as felons, domestic abusers and mentally ill just to name a few, who are considered potentially dangerous with a weapon (Background checks). Despite the Brady law, the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence still claims that 40% of gun sales are made without any background check, due to the law only covering guns purchased from federal firearms dealers (CSGV: Issues). So, if a soon to be criminal goes to a gun show, or buys from a friend, etc., they can purchase a gun without a background check, no questions asked. It is also said that these private gun sales, due to their untraceable nature, is what is most commonly used when purchasing a weapon for a mass shooting, or other type of gun violence. Gun violence is far too common. According to the Brady main page, one in three people in the US knows someone who was been shot, and one in five teenagers have witnessed a shooting! (Brady campaign: Key Gun Violence Statistics). Whether mass shootings, or an armed robbery, your chances are very good of turning on the news or reading in the paper about another example of gun violence in your town. According to the Brady campaign, 309 people are shot in America every day! That translates to 112,695 shootings in just one year! Almost 34000 people die from those shootings, nearly 3000 of them being little Sanders 3 children. These shootings are doing more than just injuring people, they are also costing our economy lots of unneeded expenses. Just the medical treatment, criminal justice proceedings new security precautions and damage are estimated to cost the U.S. tax payers one hundred billion dollars every year (Brady campaign: About Gun Violence). Studies also show that the estimated cost of the lifetime medical cost of gun violence victims is $2.3 billion; half of the costs borne to (Brady campaign: About Gun Violence). In order to get background checks on every action, president Trump needs to finish what Bill Clinton started in 1981. bill in 1981 required background checks on gun sales, and enacted a five-day waiting period on handgun sales. That way, there is a period in case the new owner had a sinister reason to purchase the gun (Bill Clinton on Gun Control). The problem is, his bill only effected gun sales by federally licensed gun dealers. Trump needs to either replace the Brady law with a new one that requires background checks on all gun sales, or he needs to expand the Brady law so that it also covers sales of guns in gun shows too. Either way, private, one on one gun sales need to be banned. That way, all gun sales can at least be regulated, even if you sell at a gun show. The time of sitting around and waiting for others to take action is over. It is time for you to start making a difference. You need to do your part to encourage law makers to get the bill passed. Gun violence is a major problem in our nation today, and it will continue to grow if something is not done. Too many people are dying every day, and it is time to act, before you are the next victim of witness to a crime that will scar you for the rest of your life. Sanders 4 Work Cited Bill Clinton on Gun  Bill Clinton on Gun Control. N.p., n.d. Web. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence seeks to secure freedom from gun violence through research, strategic engagement and effective policy  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. https://csgv.org/  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. https://csgv.org/issues/ 8 Actions You Can Take to Stop Gun Violence After  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. N.p. 14 June 2016. Web. Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. http://csgv.org/blog/bu- llet- counter-points/2016/8-steps-can-take-stop-gun-violence-wake-orlando/ Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun  About Gun Violence Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. Accessed 18 Apr. 2017 http://www.bradycampaign.org/a- bout-gun-violence Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun  Key Gun Violence Statistics* Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. <http://www.bradycamp- aign.org/ key-gun-violence-statistics>. Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun  Campaign Slides 1 Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. <http://www.bradycampaign.org/field- collection/field-campaign-slides/58>.