Carolina DeBarros ENC 1102 Campbell The recent debates on immigration, especially since Donald recent ban on Muslim refugees coming from 7 different Middle Eastern countries consider what point does immigration control become a violation of human Much of the refugee debate stems from the fact that there are innocent human beings dying in the middle east that the American government is not helping. However, many believe that there needs to be a line drawn in the United immigration policies and that we must first protect the American people. The National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights (NNIRR) fights for open borders and encourages the acceptance of refugees. Much of the organization involves legal assistance to combat human rights violations committed against immigrants. The NNIRR is fighting for the rights of immigrants as they are continuously being threatened. On the text that went alongside image two the NNIRR stated Migrants Day is a day when we can express our support and solidarity with all immigrants. In a period when economic crises have stirred anxieties about immigration and when unjust policies and public discrimination against immigrants have intensified, we call for respect and justice for all immigrants, regardless of their In this quote the NNIRR is touching on the increasing danger of being an immigrant as mentioned in image one The call of respect is in relation to the fact that immigrants are often not normalized as members of society. An editorial done by the Los Angeles Magazine focuses on introducing several immigrants that have come from around the world by stating their occupations and why they have come to America in hopes to normalize immigration in the United States (Reyes).From their website two pictures were chosen as they both advocate for the American people to view immigrants as human beings instead of just bodies filling up their country. The images chosen from the website demonstrate the passion and fight for humanity when it comes to immigrants. Both images appeal to pathos especially as well as logos, kairos, and ethos. These Rhetorical appeals draw the attention to take action for immigrant rights and accept them as Americans. The first Image shows multiple people of several ethnicities and races holding a banner that reads rights are human and a second sign that reads we believe...we act for immigrant The ethos in this image is demonstrated through the multiple people standing behind the banner, all of which have smiles on their faces and are inclusive of multiple ethnicities. The multiple languages restating the phrase on the banner also appeal to ethos as they are representing the multiple cultures that immigrants can come from. This acts as an example of just how many different immigrants there are in America who are in need of rights. Logos is also present in the image through the NNIRR website which is linked on the banners alongside the NNIRR logo. It can also be represented in again, the many different languages presented on the banner demonstrating the diversity of immigrants in America. The logic is that immigrant rights is an issue for many Americans. Next pathos is the most prevalent because the comparison of migrant rights to being human rights is a very emotional and powerful statement. The other sign also says that the people behind the banner believe in standing up for immigrant rights, the key word being believe. No human would want to deny another human the DeBarros 2 right to exist, the NNIRR is appealing to the compassionate and hopeful side of people to show them that immigrants deserve representation. In recent events the election has changed much about the dynamic around immigrants. The Southern Poverty Law Center reports an increase of hate crimes against immigrants as well as hateful graffiti such as swastikas after November 8th 2016 otherwise known as the day of the Election This can all be placed into kairos as well taking into consideration that hate crimes against immigrants are increasing. Also the NNIRR wrote on their banner that this is a human rights issue, it is clear that this issue of human rights violations against immigrants needs to be made aware of now. The reference to human rights is their way of showing American citizens and natives that they cannot ignore the immigrants because they too are humans deserving of the American dream. The second image is much more emotional than the first. It is an advertisement for the International Migrants Day which depicts a mother holding her child, a doctor, and a man in a construction uniform. Ethos is represented here through the realness of the image. Many immigrants are in fact construction workers, so much so that it is a common assumption made by americans, however many immigrants also come to America to be doctors and many immigrants come to have a better life for their families. This ties in with Logos as well because it is simply logical that immigrants make up a large part of the United States work force.An article from fortune states that now are twice as likely to start a new business as native born proving the worth of immigrants in the American economy, new businesses always means more jobs. The article also states that 70 percent of immigrant born children come out with 4 year college degrees (Reeves). Pathos plays a huge part in the rhetorical appeal of this image because it represents the immigrants as everyday Americans, not foreigners but people who are integrated into the American society. Again the NNIRR is using these images to represent their point of immigrants and refugees being humans deserving of rights. The mother and child holds the American value of helping children at all costs because children are ultimately innocent. The doctor saves lives without discrimination as all doctors do becoming an integral part of American society. The NNIRR dug into the compassionate side of Americans with this image that represents immigrants as real members of society. The images do a great job at normalizing immigration and the fight for human rights however there are a few logical fallacies that go along with each one. Image one does not have an explanation to why migrant rights are human rights, the logos is prevalent because of the supporters behind the banner however there is no real explanation to the image which would make it significantly more powerful. As for image two it serves its purpose as a touching advertisement however the NNIRR also used it as a statement of activism which would be much stronger with kairos. A specific date is mentioned, which is the date of the holiday, however no sense of urgency to advocate is attached to it on the image. The images were both powerful if the logical fallacies are slightly pushed aside however they are on par to stance and message that is to protect the rights of immigrant and remind the people native to the United States that immigrants are human beings as well. DeBarros 3 In Conclusion the touching images that reminded the American society of humanity appeal to many rhetorical approaches such as ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, they however still have slight flaws in their messages. The NNIRR or the National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights continuously advocate for a safer America for immigrants residing in the United States. Word Count: 1235 DeBarros 4 Works Cited Migrants Day December Nnirr.org , Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Reeves, Richard. What America Would Be Like Without Fortune.com . Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Reyes, Yosimar. It Loud: Here and Proud Los Angeles Magazine , 2016, pp. Incidents of Hateful Harassment Since Election Day Now Number Southern Poverty Law Center , 18 Nov. 2016, Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. DeBarros 5 (image 1) (image 2) DeBarros 6