Johnson 1 Liam Johnson Ms. Campbell ENC 1102 March 31, 2017 Legalization of physician assisted suicide in the United States Death with Dignity is a non-profit organization that supports the use of physician assisted suicide in the United States of America. The main goal of Death with Dignity is to lobby and push for legislation that would allow the use of physician assisted suicide within the U.S. One of the multiple avenues that Death with Dignity takes to spread their beliefs is through their websites and peaceful rallies. Both the images were found on their website and use rhetorical appeals to persuade the general public and policy makers that can instill change. The first images (Six Word Story) purpose is to easily convey Death with message in a quick and stylish manner. Their goal is achieved mostly by providing a chant of sort: my life, my choice, my death which gives the audience an easy to remember mantra that simultaneously presents the organizations message. This image in particular tries to make the audience imagine how they would feel if they were in a situation where physician assisted suicide would be considered as a health care option. The second Image (For Advocates) presents the audience with a clean-cut message that provides Death with goals as well. Differing from the first image, it provides a simple statistic about public support for their cause giving this advertisement more credibility. This is just one of the major aspects that allows this image to achieve its goal of gaining support for Death with Dignity. Johnson 2 Ethos is a vital part of any successful advertisement because it gives the message credibility so that the audience can believe what they are being told. The first image (Six Word Story) primarily appeals to the audience by providing a website address at the bottom of the image. By including this key detail, it not only gives it more credibility by proving that it is a legitimate and organized establishment but it also provides the audience an opportunity to learn more about what Death with Dignity represents. Another aspect of this advertisement that provides credibility is the level of confidence that is shown through the wording. By summarizing the entire debate about end of life choices into six words, it is conveyed to the audience that if the organization is that confident and passionate there must be some level of trust worthiness and credibility. The second image (For Advocates) provides the audience with a statistic that states am one of 7 in 10 AMERICANS who support the FREEDOM of terminally ill people to make their own end-of-life (For Advocates). Statistics in general are often used to show credibility for a cause or for a side of an argument and this advertisement is no exception (Greer 2009). By showing such an alarming statistic as one of the main highlighted points of the image it also shows the audience the high confidence level that Death with Dignity has pertaining to this topic making them more trustworthy. Pathos is an equally important aspect of an effective advertisement which both images utilize. When analyzing the first image (Six Word Story) Death with Dignity chose to use a colour scheme that is not commonly associated with such a grave topic. That colour scheme being light blue and green with a background of eggshell white. When you first look at these colours the last thing that comes to your mind is physician assisted suicide and that is exactly what Death with Dignity wants. Such a soft and alluring pallet, allows the audience to approach this callused and grave subject in a more pleasurable manor (Lichtle 2015). Less significant but Johnson 3 still important is the mantra located within a circle, the most soothing of all geometric shapes. The second image (For Advocates) also utilizes pathos within its advertisement, where there are several silhouettes of people forming a line together. This group formation shows that people are coming together in joint unity. This in conjunction with the statistic previously shown that declares that as in a specific person, support this cause with most Americans. Let us not forget the intentional capitalization of particular words within the statistic such as American, freedom and decisions. All of these words tap into our national pride and all of the emotions associated as well, allowing this advertisement to make the audience feel acceptance for Death with cause knowingly or not. Similar to ethos, logos provides the advertisement with elements that appeal to the logic and reasoning. As for the first advertisement (Six Word Story) the logical appeal comes from mantra saying that it is their life so it would only be logical for them to make decisions about their life choices which include death. This may seem a little obvious but it is effective in appealing to the logical side of the audience. In the second image (For Advocates) there is more of an attempt of appealing to the logos part of the audience. It uses the notion that if the majority of people agree with Death with beliefs that there must be something logical about their cause. Once again, the use of a statistic in the advertisement benefits Death with Dignity in their goal of spreading their beliefs. Arguably the most important aspect of an effective advertisement is Kairos, which gives the audience the sense of urgency or timeliness. Like life, death is inevitable and the first image (Six Word Story) uses this notion to their advantage. This is achieved by using the mantra as a representation of life, the first line followed by choice, my brings a full circle from life to death. By allowing the audience to view this subject from the perspective of a Johnson 4 terminally ill patient it naturally creates a sense of urgency of the topic of physician assisted suicide. The second image (For Advocates) takes a different approach to Kairos by manipulating the use of colour. The two main colours present in this advertisement is predominately grey with orange accents. At first the uncommon use of orange might throw some people off but it is actually brilliant, the colour grey is often associated with sadness and timelessness. Now the lack of urgency provided by the grey background is counter acted with orange which is a hot colour but not aggressive like red, this juxtaposition results in an emphasized notion of urgency. The effect is further magnified when the already hasty statistic is written in orange script giving the reader a subconscious feeling of urgency on this matter. The effective use of rhetorical appeals in advertisements can greatly alter how an audience feels about that particular topic or organization. Death with Dignity uses all the major aspects of rhetorical appeal in both of their advertisements in order to persuade as many people as possible. This is to aid in the eventual goal of legalizing the use of physician assisted suicide in the United States of America with the hopeful support from the general public as well as their respected policymakers. Johnson 5 Work Cited About  Death With Dignity. Death with Dignity National Center, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Death with Dignity, www.deathwithdignity.org/wp- Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. Greer, Jennifer D. the Credibility of Online Information: A Test of Source and Advertising Taylor and Francis Online, Mass Communication and Society, 17 Nov. edAccess=true. Accessed 19 Mar. 2017. Marie- Christine, Lichtle. Effect of an Colour on Emotions Evoked by Attitude towards the Taylor & Francis Online, International Journal of Advertising, 6 Jan. 2015, www.tandfonline.com/doi/ref/10.1080/02650487.2007.11072995?scroll=top. Accessed 19 Mar. 2017. Word Death with Dignity, s-media-cache- ak0.pinimg.com/236x/0a/ec/3e/0aec3e940b6bb32961b983211963946d.jpg. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. Johnson 6 (Six Word Story) https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/236x/0a/ec/3e/0aec3e940b6bb32961b983211963946d.jpg (For Advocates) https://www.deathwithdignity.org/wp-