Olson 1 Benjamin Olson ENC 1102 Ms. Theodosiou 14 April 2017 Why Decreasing Meat Consumption is Important, and How You Can Start Making Changes Today Meat consumption in the United States and globally is a massive industry, and its effects on the environment, health of individuals, and the animals themselves are far-reaching in ways that the average consumer may not realize. According to the Organization for Cooperation and Development, the average person on Earth consumes 75 pounds of meat per year (Gould). In the United States, this number is far larger with an average amount per year, per capita, of 198.5 pounds. Placed in the context of beef, that amount would be equivalent to each person in the United States consuming an average of 300 quarter-pounders each year (Gould). With such massive consumptions of meats, reasonable questions may include: Is this unhealthy for me? Are there environmental impacts of this large consumption? Are there any beneficial alternatives? The answer is yes to all of these questions, to some extent. Impact on the environment due to meat consumption may be the most understated issue about meat production out there, and understanding alternative options and their benefits may be easier than you think. The impact of the meat industry on the environment is shocking. In order to make one quarter-pounder hamburger, the resources used would include 6.7 pounds of grain and forage, 52.8 gallons of drinking water (and for irrigating field crops), 74.5 square feet of land for grazing and growing feed crops, and 1,036 BTUs of fossil fuel energy (enough to power a microwave for Olson 2 18 minutes) (Barclay). All of these resources could be used much more valuably and feed many more people than simply the one person indulging on a burger. Putting aside the physical items like food needed to keep the animals healthy, methane emissions from the animals and waste products produced also serve to damage the environment. Methane emissions from animals have been shown to increase greenhouses gases in the atmosphere with livestock producing about 250-500 liters per day. Their contribution to global warming alone could be up to 2% on the planet (Johnson). Understanding the illogical nature of the meat industry is reason enough for many to want to switch to options that do not damage the environment, however there are also health benefits of going vegetarian as well, and the switch may not be as difficult as you would think. Beyond helping the environment by reducing wasted energy, many scientists are seeing correlations with lower risk of cholesterol and heart problems, and even cancer in those that identified as vegetarian and chose not to eat meat at all. The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition sought to discern the truth from these claims and found that, convincing evidence that vegetarians have lower rates of coronary heart probable lower rates of hypertension and diabetes mellitus, and lower prevalence of (Fraser). Having noticed these items, and others including greater life expectancy, and possible lower rates of cancer have peaked the interest of many scientists and doctors alike. Changing a routine diet, or one without restrictions can be difficult, however there are loads of options available even for the most novice vegetarian. It can be extremely difficult to completely cut meat from a routine diet, which is why many who have made the switch to a meatless diet recommend beginning by having designated days like weekends to be meatless, or even something like is a Olson 3 great way to start making a difference in your health and in the environment. One of the trickiest parts can be how exactly to substitute the meat-filled foods with proper options, and this is where websites and those with experience in this matter can really serve to help. One such website lists 10 options for substituting meat-free foods into your diet, including foods such as tofu, mushrooms, jackfruit, beans, and cauliflower (One Green Planet). Websites like this offer insight into options for any lifestyle as well, for instance if morning breakfast is important and you want a quick option, substituting eggs and a large breakfast for a vegetarian protein shake is a great option! Not only can changing your lifestyle to include more vegetarian options help the environment and your health, this can also help decrease cruelty done to animals in the meat industry which is performed to keep up with the high demands of consumers. With higher demand for meats in the United States, the supply of meat must increase as well. Meats remain relatively inexpensive, largely due to cattle raising in confined inexpensive, and efficient operations by large meat producers. The necessity for animal cruelty to keep up with demand also plays a role in hurting the environment. Meat production plants put out pollution, and the land used to raise such huge amounts of animals are decimated whereas they could be used for agriculture for human consumption. Beyond this, animal cruelty is cruel and unusual punishment toward animals which has been well documented. The Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) often observes operations and handling of animals by large companies. One particular case of the severity of torture these animals go through occurs during the slaughter of pigs. HSUS has noted that the only time a pig gets to see any kind of government representative occurs in their last hour of life, and that, the moment born, on Olson 4 her own, spending four or five years in a tiny crate and kept perpetually pregnant and made sick from breathing in her own waste while fed food packed with growth promoting drugs, and sometimes (Rolling Stone). Imagine that that pig was your dog or cat. Imagine how the animal would feel being caged with little to no contact with humans or other animals. These awful things are being forced upon an animal that was forced to be born, and that requires huge amounts of resources just to produce sustenance for humans. To be clear, this is not to say that the meat industry is the only perpetrator of these deeds. Businesses have such high demand for meat products that they do everything in their power to ensure customer needs are met, even if that means hurting the life of an animal in the process. Decreasing general meat consumption in the United States is a viable option to help decrease demand for meat products and begin treating animals with more care, especially in meat industries. Making the change to a less meat-filled diet, or becoming a vegetarian completely are not anecdotal or meaningless gestures. Statistics showing meat consumption in the United States are often shown in averages of pounds consumed per person, and you are one of those people. Every little bit counts, and making daily changes to avoid meat or substitute with new foods can help the environment in a huge way, and even make you healthier and help animals. Decreasing meat consumption and substituting with vegetables helps decrease decimation of lands caused by cruel animal practices, and increase the efficiency of available crops. You can make a true difference in the environment by following steps to substitute foods on vegetarian websites including onegreenplanet.org, reading scientific articles studying the impact of meat consumption on animals and the environment as they are released regularly, and dedicating certain days to be meatless to start off. If you are still interested, you could join an organization or club on campus Olson 5 like Protecting the Environment and Animals through (SPEAK) and follow their page on Facebook, to keep updated. You can also continue to inform your friends about environmental impacts regarding usage of corn and grains, water, land, and fossil fuel energy. Consider your health, the impact on animals, and especially consider the massive effect on our planet. Olson 6 Works Cited 10 Vegetables That Can Substitute for  One Green Planet. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Animal Cruelty Is the Price We Pay for Cheap Meat Rolling  Rolling Stone Magazine. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Barclay, Eliza. A Nation Of Meat Eaters: See How It All Adds  NPR. NPR, 27 June 2012. Web.15 Apr. 2017. Fraser, G. E. Vegetarian diets: what do we know of their effects on common chronic  American Journal of Clinical Nutrition 89.5 (2009): n. pag. Web. 29 Mar. 2017. Gould, Skye. The countries where people eat the most  Business Insider. Business Insider, 26 Sept. 2015. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Johnson, K. A., and D. E. Johnson. 1995. emissions from Journal of animal science 73:2483-2492. doi:10.2527/1995.7382483x