Otero 1 Samira Otero Professor Uddin Composition One 04/25/2017 Gender Wage Gap: Fact or Fiction On January 21 st 2017, the largest march was held in Washington, advocating rights and equality of women in the workforce among other aspects. In society, despite assertions of the opposite, the gender wage gap continues to exists in America. This has been proven to exist by many statistics, generated research studies and even records of experiences in the work force. To this date, American women continue to be treated unfairly to this date with statistics to prove the opposite gender is being paid more for similar jobs and skill sets, showing that the gender wage gap is in fact existent and significant to American society. The Equal Pay Act of 1963 was signed off by John F Kennedy in order to establish democracy by showing woman that their beliefs, opinions and work values were going to begin to be equally accounted for, and demolish discrimination in the work force against women whom had similar skill sets but were being underpaid or taken advantage of for having a similar occupation yet being paid less just for being a woman. John F Kennedy signed off on this Act after women began to boycott and refuse work due to the low wages being paid in comparison to the opposite genders. The Equal Pay Act was put into play to establish equal pay among both genders in the work force and establish a legally binding punishment to businesses, corporations and any work force who was not compliant. As explained by David Paas in his article Otero 2 Pay Act of This Act of the act created a significant decrease in the when it first was enforced being that it was a new change for society and one step closer for equality between opposite genders. However, the signing of the Equal Pay Act did not lead to immediate equal pay between members of each gender. Women continued to be paid less than men for the same jobs with the same skill sets and as years passed this, between pay began to become smaller and smaller due to the enforcement of law and businesses. This leads to the current stance in society, where there is currently a gender wage gap in America. The gender wage gap in America is shown mainly through methods of study and research. Entailing on Shannon M. and Kidd research study the U.S Gender Wage Gap from studies reported a small yet significant decrease from the year 2000 to 2004 even though, towards the end of the study, evidence shows that there was still an ample gap in the way the opposite genders were being paid. This article, along with several supporting statistics show and give example to how although the gender wage gap does show it is decreasing yearly, men and women are still not being paid equally for their jobs. Studies and research projects are continuously being demonstrated and some as far as including law enforcement for justice after the research project is complete, showing that even in current state, equality is yet to be met. Although many statistics prove that there is a gender wage gap, assertions that gender wage gap is either no longer significant continue to arise. The argument leads to two opposing summarized stand points between researched scholars ; either it is believed that the gender wage gap is no longer a problem happening in America, or Otero 3 that the gender wage gap is so small, it is of insignificant value. The counterargument leads with ideals that the gender wage gap either does not exist due to the enforcement of law or the insignificance of the due to being so Factors used to support this argument rely on the explanation that is bias in many studies as stated by Denise Venabal in the article Gender Wage Gap This statement leads to assumptions that variables such as experience, skill set, professionalism, and potential are not accounted for in research studies which claim to have proof that the gender wage gap is still existent in America. The counterargument also claims that if there is a slight gender wage gap at all, that it is so evidently small that it should not be accounted for and much less be represented as being a wage However, when researching studies many of the possible outliers and variables were taken into consideration when researching gender pay between men and women such as location, education, experience, success in the work field, and efficiency which rejects the counterargument that the gender wage gap no longer exists in America. Although it is understood that it is impossible to fully eliminate all bias in research studies, percent error is continually calculated and added into experimental research studies. In regards to the gap so small it is due to law enforcement and equality in America, even the smallest of inconsistencies, discrepancies and unfairness should be taken into consideration legally. The gender wage gap in America continues to be an ongoing problem affecting women all over the country. Although assertions of opposite belief have arrised, it has been proven to continue to exist by statistics, research studies, and consideration of work experiences. The gender wage gap was and continues to be an ongoing issue for Otero 4 American women and should be fully addressed and enforced. America should provide strong legal enforcement among business to put an end to the unfair wage gap in America and begin to allow for equal opportunity in the work field for pay . It is important that as a society, the existence of the gender pay gap is fully accepted and recognized and that in the near future opposite genders reach equality in the work force. Otero 5 Bibliography Paas, David E. Equal Pay Act Of  Salem Press Encyclopedia : Research Starters. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Shannon, M, & Kidd, M (2003): the U.S. Gender Wage Gap Economic Journal Business Source Premier, Web.12 March 2017. Venable, Denise (2202 Wage Gap National Center for Policy Analysis.Web. 7 April. 2017 Widmer, L. (2016). Equal Work Unequal Pay: The Risks of the Gender Wage Gap. Risk Management, (9). 22. Web 7. April. 2017