Major 1 Jesse Major Sabah Firoz Uddin, PhD ENC1101 5/7/17 Project 3 Final Draft The death penalty is a consequence that is given by the judicial system to individuals that commit atrocious crimes. This is not anything new as the death penalty started long before America was formed. It is one of the original punishments that societies offered. It is brought up in discussions as a possible source of crime deterrence. Scholars have conducted multiple studies to see if there is a correlation between crime rates and the death penalty. From all of the sources reviewed, scholars believe that the crime rate is not affected by the state offering the death penalty. One of the reasons for why the death penalty does not deter crime is that not many people commit crimes heinous enough so that it requires the state to give them the death penalty. While there are murders and rapes happening, it is not on a scale that warrants the death penalty. To even be considered for the death penalty, the crime has to usually be a murder spree which rarely happens. Many of the sources used are only for murder rates or other felonies. They are not the rates of murder sprees or repeated sexual batteries. a 1985 Gallup Poll, 62% of the respondents answered yes to the question, you feel that the death penalty acts as a deterrent to the commitment of murder, that it lowers the murder rate, or (Radelet and Lacock 492). The article uses a poll that asks strangers who may not have information about the death penalty. People like myself have the common misconception that the death penalty deters crime. Polls Major 2 from the public should not be used to come to a conclusion. If the poll was given to people who studied the topic and have enough information to answer that question, it would have helped shown that the death penalty deters crime. It may seem that terrorist acts or mass shootings are at an all-time high however that is not the case. The media is the cause for stirring up the public and making it seem like crime is at an all-time high. News outlets run these stories to cause panic and fear in people to sway public opinion that crime rates are rising. In reality, these shootings happen maybe once or twice a year. They are not common at all. We only see an increase due to extremists wanting their message to be heard thus leading them to commit heinous crimes. We also only see an increase because people who commit these crimes know that the media will report on it and bring their cause into the limelight. Another reason why the death penalty does not deter heinous crime is that it is usually other factors that account for crime rates. factors that affect crime-for example, law enforcement, judicial, demographic, and economic variables change only slightly over a short period of (Dezhbakhsh and Shepherd 512). The crime rates that are reported is based on economical and societal factors. Many of the crimes committed is based on economic status and desperation. response to the foregoing discussion is that model incorrectly models the process by which individuals decide whether or not to commit (Charles and Durlauf 53). This model showed that people commit murder for economic reasons. Most crimes committed are from low income and unemployed individuals. unemployment rate is positive and highly significant in all equations, suggesting that more unemployment may lead to a higher murder rate, as expected from economic (Dezhbakhsh and Shepherd 519). This lead researchers to conclude that the unemployment rate goes hand-in-hand with the crime rate. Major 3 People in desperate situations will try to do anything to provide for themselves and/or their families. A possible counterargument is that crime is deterred by the death penalty as there are not major heinous crimes such as murder sprees and multiple sexual batteries of minors. results indicate that the annual murder rate jumped by 0.8 or 9.3% when the moratorium was imposed and dropped by 0.8 or 8.3% when the moratorium was (Dezhbakhsh and Shepherd 517). A moratorium is in simple terms, suspension of a law. Researchers found that the murder rate did increase with the death penalty not offered and decrease when it was offered again. By looking at Figure 1 on page 517, the murder rate decreased with the increase in executions. empirical studies by economists have shown, without exception, that capital punishment deters (Shepherd 204). This means that the data that economists are provided with shows that crime is deterred. To refute the counterargument, crime is not deterred by the death penalty being offered. While states still offer the death penalty, crimes are still being committed. Homicides are happening daily and rapes are still occurring. Even small crimes such as jaywalking and littering still occurs. Crimes will always be committed. Criminals do not care about the consequences of their actions therefore the death penalty will not deter them from committing crimes. While empirical studies do show a deterrence with the death penalty offered, we can only assume that this is based on reported crimes or crimes that people are charged for. There are many crimes being committed but if the charges do not stick, people are released. There are also cold cases in which the perpetrator is never found leading it to sway data that crime is deterred. In conclusion, the death penalty does not deter crime. Most people do not even know the crime they have to commit to receive the death penalty as punishment. Other factors affect the Major 4 crime rate such as a economic and social standing. Most people will not commit the crimes that requires the death penalty. They will also only commit crimes that beneficial to them. The crime rate is higher in lower income areas as people are in desperate situations and will do whatever it takes to provide for themselves along with their family if they have any. The studies that show that crime is deterred by the death penalty are from polls from the general public or empirical data from only one specific crime. Major 5 Works Cited Charles, Kerwin Kofi, and Steven N. Durlauf. Pitfalls in the Use of Time Series Methods to Study Deterrence and Capital  Journal of Quantitative Criminology 29.1 (2012): 45-66. Web. Dezhbakhsh, Hashem, and Joanna Shepherd. The Deterrent Effect of Capital Punishment: Evidence from a  SSRN Electronic Journal (n.d.): 512-535. Web. Durlauf, Steven N., Chao Fu, and Salvador Navarro. Capital Punishment and Deterrence: Understanding Disparate  Journal of Quantitative Criminology 29.1 (2012): 103-21. Web. Engelen, Peter-Jan, Michel W. Lander, and Marc Van Essen. What Determines Crime Rates? An Empirical Test of Integrated Economic and Sociological Theories of Criminal  The Social Science Journal 53.2 (2016): 247-62. Web. RADELET, MICHAEL L., and TRACI L. LACOCK. DEVELOPMENTS: DO EXECUTIONS LOWER HOMICIDE RATES?: THE VIEWS OF LEADING The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology (1973-), vol. 99, no. 2, 2009, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/20685045. Shepherd, Joanna M. versus Brutalization: Capital Differing Impacts among Michigan Law Review, vol. 104, no. 2, 2005, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/30044629.