Zimmerman 1 Matthew Zimmerman De Carion ENC 1102 May 3 2017 Without medication and the advancement of the medical field we could face hundreds of diseases that today are completely eradicated. Even though major progress has been made one disease that will never go away is addiction. Addiction is one of the hardest diseases to overcome and some classes of drugs can be a catalyst for it to occur. One such class of drugs are opioids, which are used by doctors to treat pain and are extremely effective. Due to the effectiveness, addiction to opioids is more likely than other classes of drugs. Each day more than 1000 people are treated for issues related to opioid abuse (Opioid Overdose). This number however could be drastically reduced, and it starts with the companies that exploit the nature of the drugs, and those who are complicit in allowing them to act this way. Without outcry from those who are currently not involved, regulations may never change and the epidemic will only worsen. Opioids are being prescribed for many of the worst illnesses we have today as well as injuries prior to 1999 however this was not the case. Opioids were only used in extreme cases and example being when patients are in palliative care (Drug Overdose). Drug companies noticed how effective the opioid products were, and sought that they be used outside of extreme situations. became flooded with ads from the drug companies using doctors to endorse their products for regular use. Once people saw doctors on TV disproving all the negative aspects of opioids they became widely requested by patients. Instead of only being used in extreme Zimmerman 2 circumstances like cancer treatment, they were being used to treat chronic pain, even in cases where it was undiagnosed by a doctor. Patients could walk into almost any clinic, claim pain, and get a prescription. This caused the rate of opioid use to almost quadruple since 1999 (Drug Overdose). This rate is not only due to the patients who do not know any better but it falls into the hands of doctors and companies that allow for this misinformation to spread. Another issue with opioids is that over time, resistance will form and it will require higher strengths to get the same effect. Once this occurs there is a high chance that the user will then try to obtain drugs illegally or even attempt to use heroin. Since the rise of prescription opioids heroin addiction has increased and specifically from 2005 to 2012 it has doubled Addiction to Opioids This statistic is concerning because it clearly shows the issue of addiction is not only a medical problem but a legal issue as well. Once the law is broken, those addicted may be afraid that they will be jailed for their actions which makes it even less likely someone will reach out for help. Because opioid addiction affects as many as one in four, the chances that it affects someone you know are extremely high (Opioid Overdose/Data). Due to the scope of this issue it will take people who feel that they are not directly affected to step up and join the cause to aid in eradication. They can see the issue more objectively and unite those with opposing views to come to a resolution. If those not directly influenced by abuse can become more educated in how this issue can affect them, I believe there is a much greater chance for change to occur. One area that the average person may have interest in, is the amount of money that is spent each year on opioids. As of 2013 roughly 78.5 billion was spent on treatment and prevention with 28 billion coming directly from tax wallets (Florence). This money could be going to so many other different things like schools, other healthcare needs, or even disaster relief. Those not Zimmerman 3 suffering from addiction are being robbed by the companies that are creating the problem and not doing enough to fix it. Fighting addiction can come in many forms and one of the best ways to get involved is by volunteering for events that promote getting help for those affected. One of the problems with treating abuse is the stigma associated with being an These events can help show those addicted that help is available should they seek it out. Through this outlet addicts can recognize their problems and understand that there are people available to help. Drugs can become part of their life, and it may be difficult for the problem to be realized if not for events that promote getting help. Once they come to this realization they can go into a long-term care facility to manage their withdrawals, as opposed to detoxification which is what would occur if they stop by being forced to (Krebs). Not being alone is a major factor in helping someone overcome abuse issues, as the activity can help take mind away from addiction and doing anything illegal to get the drugs (Stavseth). Another powerful way for people to get involved is to contact local officials because they are the ones who can make change happen. By expressing your concerns, it can help move the conversation about opioid abuse in the right direction. Without constant pressure on politicians to work on this crisis they may focus on other matters and not be motivated to pass new laws controlling the distribution of opioids and prevent the epidemic from getting any worse. One bill that is currently being considered is the Opioid Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act of 2017 which is being sponsored by representative Bill Foster (Foster H.R.933). This bill aims to find and stop improper dispensing by giving more power to local law enforcement (Foster H.R.933). Bills like this are a great way of helping curb the problem and the average person can contact their local representatives in congress to help get it passed. Zimmerman 4 Opioid abuse is an epidemic created by people, and can only be solved by people who care about the wellbeing of others, not the profits that can be exploited from a sick patient. There needs to be more people involved in the issue of opioid abuse because right now there is not enough. Even though the CDC and FDA have come out against the issue almost no progress has been made in reducing is scope. People who are uninvolved need to speak out against the companies and officials who are complicit in allowing the issue to worsen over the past few years. Only then can real progress be made and lives of people, maybe even someone you know can be saved. Zimmerman 5 Works Cited Abuse, National Institute on Drug. Addiction to Opioids: Heroin and Prescription Drug  NIDA. N.p., 14 May 2014. https://www.drugabuse.gov/about- nida/legislative-activities/testimony-to-congress/2016/americas-addiction-to-opioids-heroin- prescription-drug-abuse. 03 May 2017. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Opioid Basics, 20 Dec. 2016. Web. 4 Apr. 2017. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Drug Overdose, 20 Dec. 2016. Web. 4 Apr. 2017. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Opioid Overdose, https://www.cdc.gov/ drugoverdose/data/overdose.html Dec. 2016. Web. 4 Apr. 2017. Florence, CS et al. The Economic Burden of Prescription Opioid Overdose, Abuse, and Dependence in the United States, 2013; Medical Care. Vol. 54, No. 10. May 3, 2017 Foster, Bill. All Info - H.R.993 - 115th Congress (2017-2018): Opioid Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act of  Congress.gov. N.p., 10 Feb. 2017. https://www.congress.gov/bill/ 115th-congrss /house-bill/993/ all-info . 03 May 2017. Krebs, Emanuel, et al. The Costs of Crime during and After Publicly Funded Treatment for Opioid Use Disorders: A Population-Level Study for the State of  Addiction, vol. 112, no. 5, May 2017, pp. 838-851. EBSCOhost, .lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost .com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=sph&AN=122313851&site=eds-live Zimmerman 6 Stavseth, Marianne Riksheim, et al. Factors Associated with Ongoing Criminal Engagement While in Opioid Maintenance  Journal of Substance Abuse Treatment, 28 Mar. 2017. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jsat.2017.03.010.