Jessica Parker 1 Uddin ENC 1101 3/26/17 TPP: Continuing the Conversation Project 2 The Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) was created with the goal of binding Pacific nations by offering low tariffs and protecting the global economy from rapid economic growth and influence. What started out as a trade agreement between New Zealand, Singapore, Chile and Brunei, called the P-4, soon became the TPP when the United States announced its join in February 2008 under Bush presidency. One of the original reasons for act to join was to be recognized in the Annual Report on Trade Agreements. This report stated the TPP could give the opportunity for big US businesses to better their competition in the Asia-Pacific region; which was at a noticeably high exclusion rate as economy was developing. Soon the TPP was to become the largest regional trade agreement, consisting of Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore, Vietnam and the United States. These countries put together contained roughly 40% of the global GDP and 1/3 of the world trade. Through the years of involvement with the TPP, saw no new jobs or major direct impact. Some big businesses had larger yearly exports to international low paying manufacturing jobs which limited competition and even raised prices on certain items. In the recent election of President Trump, the US resigned from its involvement with the TPP. Over a time period from 2000-2017, researchers have changed their view about the TPP and the effects on the US economy by initially arguing that the TPP negatively impacted other trade agreements to a shift where they saw the TPP as a tool to strengthen the US economy. 2 John Ravenhill writes in the Australian Journal of International Affairs about his thoughts on both the positive and negative impacts on the US economy from his article The Move To Preferential Trade On The Western Pacific Rim: Some Initial  Ravenhill emphasizes on 4 overall economic effects of Asia-Pacific trade agreements in general, which the TPP falls under. The first point he makes is large percentage of the total trade between the parties may already be little affected by The TPP consists of 12 countries that together carry 40% of the global GDP and 1/3 of the world trade. point puts off the idea that considering these countries already trade on such a large scale, the TPP offering low tariffs may be a negligible factor for involvement. second point of created by PTAs(preferential trade agreements) may be offset by other relates to Vinod Aggarwal thoughts from West: The Evolution of US Trade Policy Toward in the Globalizations journal. According to Aggarwal, the advantages thought about the TPP concerned some committees, saying a TPP might negatively impact existing PTAs that the US has negotiated with Chile, Singapore, and The US had to weigh the advantages of either joining a trade agreement that could protect them from growing economy or continuing to make existing trade agreements stronger that are already proven to encourage growth in the US economy. Some of the advantages dealing with China may not be as great as thought. Aggarwal explains to negotiate an FTAAP(Free Trade area of the Asia-Pacific) ignores the reality of US trade politics by misunderstanding how the continuing and increasing US trade deficit with China in recent years has dramatically increased domestic protectionist pressure in the United With this being said, and then being proven, it was hard and was thought to be hard to get China on board with the idea of the TPP. The Asian-Pacific region had rising suspicions of 3 the US motives while being encouraged to join considering the allies included in the agreement and their past trade deficit. The TPP is full of US allies, and Ravenhill explains that with has not stopped the US from making personal economic negotiations. Ravenhill says decided to prioritize negotiations with in selecting its partners for negotiating PTAs*/but this preference for working with friends has not prevented it from rigorously pursuing its own economic interests once negotiations begin. Even if the primary objectives of a state in initiating the negotiation of a PTA are political, the agreements will inevitably also serve some This tactic of working with allies comes into play with defensive motivations, which takes away the negative aspects the economy might face when competing in the foreign market due to the fact that they country is preferential. Defensive motivations encourage the goal of joining a trade agreement to benefit economically and have closer ties with other countries. In Jacques DeLisle article Law in the Obama writes in the Case Western Reserve Journal of Internation Law saying the promises to link the U.S. more closely to major economies in the region and thereby strengthen the economic presence and interests in the part of the world that Obama-era policies have identified as singularly important to the international interests, economic as well as Joining the TPP meant strengthening ties with new countries and countries that are already strong allies with the US. This is very strategic of the Obama administration as the stronger the ties become, more economic negotiations will be possible. Alexander Resar writes The Evolution of Investor-State Arbitration in the Trans-Pacific Partnership  in the Berkeley Journal of International Law that the agreement phases out thousands of import tariffs, establishes uniform intellectual property 4 rules, enforces standards for labor conditions and environmental protection, and, among other provisions, regulates both the state treatment of foreign direct investment and the arbitration of disputes arising (160) This statement gives insight to the fact that US had such a hold over the overall agreement and negotiations would easily be made. Through the years, there have been on average an equal amount of advantages and disadvantages all directly or indirectly impacting the US economy. However, the direct impacts are mostly associated with advantages that effect the economy short term and long term. Resar made a strong statement saying TPP continues the largely responsive evolution in international investment (162) Other trade agreements had so much in common with the TPP that it was an easy transition for all of the countries that joined and also made their individual agreements stronger. 5 Work Cited: Aggarwal, Vinod K. Look West: The Evolution of US Trade Policy toward  Globalizations, vol. 7, no. 4, Dec. 2010, pp. 455-473. DeLisle, Jacques. International Law in the Obama Pivot to Asia: The China Seas Disputes, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, Rivalry with the Prc, and Status Quo Legal Norms in U.S. Foreign  Case Western Reserve Journal of International Law, vol. 48, no. 1/2, Spring2016, pp. 143-176. Ravenhill*, John. The Move to Preferential Trade on the Western Pacific Rim: Some Initial  Australian Journal of International Affairs, vol. 62, no. 2, June 2008, pp. 129- 150. Resar, Alexander W. The Evolution of Investor-State Arbitration in the Trans-Pacific Partnership  Berkeley Journal of International Law, vol. 34, no. 2, Fall2016, pp. 159- 190.