Blum 1 Taylor-Paige Blum Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 16 March 2017 Florida Department of Education Rhetorical Appeals When someone says picture is worth a thousand the they are referring to portray not only the message, but also the emotion, logical argument, and any other hidden meaning within the image the author or illustrator is trying to convey. Foundations and organizations use images and advertisements to communicate to their audience in a different way than they would be able to with only words. For example, the Florida Department of Education (FLDOE) uses their advertisements to persuade and encourage students to do well in the studies in order to graduate. The main goal of the FLDOE is providing the curriculum and graduation requirements for all students in the state of Florida. The following images provided by the FLDOE and both are trying to influence current and potential students to graduate by either enrolling in classes or attended extra services provided by the organization. By analyzing images from the FLDOE using the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, one can find the real message the organization is trying to convey. Blum 2 Image 1: Image 2: Blum 3 Ethos is the rhetorical appeal that shows the connection to credibility in their text. Adding credibility in a text, in this case an image, assures the audience that what they are seeing comes from a reliable source and the information giving is trustworthy. The first image is highly credible as it comes directly from the front page of the webpage (fldoe.org). Additionally, the colors in the text are the same as those in the logo making the association without using the logo directly in the image. Rather in the second image they printed the logo at the bottom of the ad showing strong, reliable connection to the organization. Because this logo can be found on their website and other documents, by using it on the ad viewers are more likely to trust the information the ad is giving. Also, the website and copyright date are printed in the footnote of the image in the case that the viewers would want to validate the advertisement. Aside from direct references to the organization, this image also includes the name of the chancellor who will be hosting the event, proving the event is reliable. However, just because an image or advertisement is reliable, does not mean the audience will be emotionally and physically attracted to it. Pathos is the rhetorical appeal that pulls at an emotions. Through text, expressions, colors, and much more and author can make a connection with their audience that is strong enough to make them do whatever it is the author is trying to convince them. Aside from the blue and gold colors used in the first image, if you pair the gold with the maroon color of the background you get the colors of a popular Florida college, Florida State University. Because Florida State is ranked 38 th in the country and very well known in the state of Florida, this could potentially appeal to Florida students that aspire to go to a university such as Florida State (fsu.edu). Students may be more drawn towards performing well in school and graduating after seeing the success that comes out of a university such as Florida State. Secondly, the text reads Blum 4 graduation rate is on the using the phrase the the author infers that the rate will keep rising and that the viewer could be one of those students. In the graph posted by FLDOE, it shows graduation rates have been rising since its last decline in the 2005-2006 school year, as reported by the Florida Department of Education High School Cohort 2015-16 Graduation 1). This could potentially give the viewer the encouragement they may need in order to graduate. The second picture, on the other hand, uses a picture of actual students after graduation. Everyone is smiling and happy conveying the idea that graduating is a good thing to strive for. Additionally, they are all holding diplomas which is a symbol of accomplishment and success. Now that both images are proven to be credible and attractive to the audience, it is also important that the claim they are trying to make is logical and relevant. Logos is the rhetorical appeal that assures the audience that the argument the author is trying to make is rational and logical. It is necessary that an advertisement has logos to ensure that the claim the organization is trying to make is logical. The first image is claiming that the FLDOE has been very successful in the past very years. This is supported by the image stating the graduation rate is at a high of 80.7% and still rising (2015-2016 Perkins Funding Opportunities Webinar April 23, 2015). Over the past30 years, the number of high school graduates in the work force has risen while the number of high school dropouts in the workforce has fallen (Mishel 288). Thus having a high school diploma is slowly becoming a necessity in society. Similarly in the second picture, the image claims that attending the webinar will help reaching towards a goal of graduation. By showing with diplomas on the advertisements suggests that the information given in this presentation will be helpful and informational, progressing them towards their goal of graduation. Additionally, because the event is run by the chancellor from the Division of Career and Adult Education one can assume Blum 5 that the information will be helpful. Both images provide evidence and support that graduation is a vital part in a career and is necessary for success in life. Now that everything about the images have been proven logical, it is important to make sure they are relevant to a timely manner. The last rhetorical appeal to look for in literature is kairos; the appeal which looks for the relation from the image to time. Kairos can install a feeling of urgency, relate the text to current times, or validate its publication. The first image appeals to time through the phrase the By using this phrase the author suggests that graduation rate is currently rising and will continue to rise. FLDOE supports this by saying high school graduation rate increased by 2.8% over the last year High School Cohort 2015-16 Graduation 1). The second image appeals to time by putting the year and date in which the course will take place. It also has the copyright date in the foot note showing when it was published. The copyright date says the advertisement was created in 2014 for an event that will take place throughout 2015 and 2016. This also adds to the ethos of the image by showing it was published in a timely manner in accordance with the date of the event. By putting the validity of the dates with the rest of the rhetorical appeals, the images as a whole are regarded as trustworthy and logical images and advertisements. The meaning behind an image can be analyzed in different ways in order to find the deeper meaning of the message from the author. By analyzing these two images under ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos we can validate that the argument they are trying to make is logical and relevant. The Florida Department of Education is trying to promote graduation amongst their students in the images provided and do so through text, images, and hidden messages. As the Blum 6 ancient American idiom states, picture is worth a thousand the goal and purpose of the images can be more clearly understood the audience. Blum 7 Works Cited Fldoe.org. Web. 23 Feb. 2017 Perkins Funding Opportunities Webinar April 23, 2014. Fldoe, Web. 23 Feb. 2017 High School Cohort 2015-16 Graduation Fldoe.org. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Mishel, Lawrence and Joydeep Roy. Accurately Assessing High School Graduation  Phi Delta Kappan, vol. 88, no. 4, Dec. 2006, pp. 287-292. EBSCOhost. 16 March 2017. of admissions.fsu.edu/. Web. 26. Feb. 2017