Amanda Medina ENC 1101 Research Arguments 03/26/2017 Physician Assisted Suicide Arguments The recourse of physician assisted suicide was originally adapted for those patients with a terminal illness. The thinking behind physician assisted suicide is that it allows patients to bypass the suffering that arises with a terminal illness. Scholars began to investigate the topic and over the last twenty years have surveyed both doctors and patients to see what their thoughts are on the topic. Scholars have documented their thoughts and the evidence is showing that while the opinions of the doctors have stayed consistent, those of the patients have changed. The New England journal of Medicine conducted a surveyed patients over a span of twenty years. At the beginning of the twenty years they were asked how they felt about physician assisted suicide and whether they would consider it for themselves. The majority, while they understood the outcome of these terminal illnesses, still felt that allowing them to end their lives with the help of a doctor would be wrong. That even though they are going to die, they still have so much they can live for and should keep fighting to the end. The JAMA network also did survey, however they asked doctors for their thoughts. The doctors when first given the survey also responded the same. However they disagreed on the basis of the oath they take when they receive their license to practice. After twenty years the NEJM had the same doctors and patients take a follow up survey to see if they still felt the same. Within those twenty years they were able to witness the development of medicine as well as the progression of many illnesses. The doctors stayed firm on their stance of doing no harm as they pledged in their oath upon completing medical school. The patients however did change their minds, 60.2% changed their stance on the topic and supported physician assisted suicide; as a matter of a fact many even said they would consider the option if that time came. Amanda Medina ENC 1101 Research Arguments 03/26/2017 In The Legalization of Physician-Assisted Suicide: A Very Modest  the author looked at physicians thoughts specifically. This and Sage Journal, both speak on how the doctors feel about this topic This article looked at the reasons people had to disagree with physician assisted suicide. Specifically doctors and patients. The patients considered how they themselves would feel in that situation. Whether they would want to suffer if they were in that position and all the possible outcomes they would have. However they also brought up access to healthcare as a reason that this should be an option for the terminally ill. They considered the fact that many people do not have access to affordable healthcare so even though there are drugs to keep them comfortable as well as facilities to help them live the rest of their days as comfortable as possible; many do not have the money to accept that as an option. Palliative care is a luxury to many people in America and cannot be considered an option for everyone. Some however believe that it could still be possible for science to find a cure, but if they end their lives prior to that happening will never get the benefit of the cure. However while doctors sympathized with the realities of a terminal illness, many still opposed the idea. On the grounds of religion and their oath as doctors. Some felt that it would be against their religion to assist a person in ending their lives and thus would not condone the practice. They believe freedom of religion would protect them from participating should the practice become legal. While others still refer to their oath to do no harm. They were drilled this while going through medical school, so many lose their licenses for going against it and so when being asked about assisting someone to end their life they feel they cannot uphold their oath and still participate. Doctors also consider the fact that many patients end up living longer than doctors originally anticipate and thus ending their lives could take away more time than they Amanda Medina ENC 1101 Research Arguments 03/26/2017 believe they have. Even though modern science is constantly evolving, it is still possible for patients to outlive their original prognosis. This ties into the reasoning the patients have in considering the fact that science could develop a cure in the time it takes their disease to progress. This conversation over the last twenty years has many different aspects that scholars have taken the time to look into. They spent twenty years surveying doctors and patients to determine their thoughts and how they may develop over time. They also took the time to see what the reasoning behind their answers could be. With all this information now is the time to reconsider if physician assisted suicide should be legalized. Should the desires of the patients be taken over the oath doctors take? Would this possibly open the door for more harmful practices to be allowed? Or should this just be looked at as an act of mercy for those who are suffering or shall suffer in the near future? Amanda Medina ENC 1101 Research Arguments 03/26/2017 Works Cited Attitudes of UK Doctors towards Euthanasia and Physician-assisted Suicide: A Systematic Literature  Palliative Medicine. Sage Journals, n.d. Web. 07 Apr. 2017. Euthanasia and Physician-assisted Suicide: A View from an EAPC Ethics Task  Palliative Medicine. Sage Journals, n.d. Web. 07 Apr. 2017. A National Survey of Physician-Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia in the United States  New England Journal of Medicine. N.p., n.d. Web. 07 Apr. 2017. Physician-Assisted Suicide  New England Journal of Medicine. N.p., n.d. Web. 07 Apr. 2017.