Persaud 1 Student Richard Gaspar ENC 1101 3 May 2017 Take a Stand for Labeling A genetically modified organism, otherwise known as GMO, is or meat products that has had its DNA artificially altered in a laboratory by genes from other plants, animals, viruses, or bacteria, to produce foreign compounds in that (Just Label It). The ongoing debate about whether GMOs pose a threat to humans will continue until substantial evidence to prove otherwise is provided. It is unfortunate that most people do not know where their food is coming from due to the neglect of food labeling. However, consumers still have a right to know what is in their food. According to Just Label it, show that more than 90% of Americans support mandatory labeling of genetically modified (Par, 1). Consumers have been kept in the dark ever since GMOs entered the market. For food products to be labeled, big corporations like the Grocery Manufacturers Association (GMA) and individuals who care about there food, should take a stand to support labeling acts. Labeling is not a new concept, in fact, people have reached out to companies before to have food products labeled but to no avail. One organization has been fighting GMOs from the very beginning. Founded in 2007 by two grocery stores, The Non-GMO main mission is to preserve and build sources of non-GMO products, educate consumers and provide verified non-GMO choices (The Non-GMO Project Par. 6). The Non- GMO Project main concern is not about getting rid of GMOs completely but they want their consumers to know what they are eating. The best way to do this is to provide labels for food products. There have been attempts Persaud 2 in the past for labeling acts but all fell short of expectations. According to Label Pat Roberts and Debbie Stabenow introduced a compromise bill that would create a mandatory, national labeling standard for GMO foods. This bill was passed by the Senate on July 7th, the House of Representatives on July 14th, and signed by the President on July (Par, 2). Upon closer inspection, the bill did not apply to all ingredients rooted from GMO. Without the additional help of corporations like GMA, labeling might only be a dream instead of reality. Other stakeholders try to counter this position by claiming that labels will just confuse customers. Josh Davis from IFLS stated, wanting to know what is in the food that you eat necessarily a bad thing at all, the blanket labelling of foods which contain GMOs is essentially useless, because it tells the consumer almost nothing about the specific modification that has been done to the crops, and thus about their safety. All it does is fan the flames of or the irrational fear that all chemicals in food are bad in nature. (Par, 8). Even if this was true, the need for labeling outweighs the need to keep silent. Another theory is that labeling will cost too much. This is proven false by a study conducted by recognized food- marketing expert Kai Robertson who claimed, to a food product labels have not been found to affect the prices paid by (4). Clearly, there is no reason that corporations should be against labeling because it benefits both their company and the consumer. Additionally, Stakeholders like the Grocery Manufacturers Association should take a stand for labeling. North America relies heavily on one particular corporation for food. The Grocery Manufacturers Association, the voice of more than 250 leading foods, beverage and consumer product companies that sustain and enhance the quality of life for hundreds of millions Persaud 3 of people in the United States and around the (GMA Par, 2). It is stated on the GMA website that, use of genetically modified (GMO) ingredients is not only safe for people and our planet, but also has several important (GMA). However, if GMA truly believes that GMOs are not harmful then why have they not supported labeling in the past? Fall of 2012, many of largest and most successful chemical companies teamed up with major food companies including GMA to, more than $45 million in an advertising blitz to stop Prop 37, an initiative to require labeling of genetically modified Label This proves that GMA does not value their beliefs. Many surveys and polls have been taking to see what buyers really wanted. One group in particular, The Mellman Group found that, than 88% of Americans support GMO (Mellman Par, 2). It turns out the victims in this situation are none other than the consumers who have been kept in the dark about the food they are buying. During a 2013 Tedx talk in Manhattan, Gary Hirshberg goes into depth about GMOs and labeling laws. He explains how the government has kept consumers in the dark for so long. Hirshberg states, failure to require labeling, and to be engaged in developing the science supporting GMO food risk assessment is an absolute breach of its responsibility to the American (Tedx Talk). Given the overwhelming amount of support labeling has received it is difficult to determine why labeling laws have not been enacted. It may take a while for major corporations like GMA to back down but the fight for labeling has just begun. Concerned individuals can start voiced their opinions and join the other 88% of Americans by becoming involved with the Just Label it group. This organization provides countless information on GMOs and corporations that support and oppose labeling. Persaud 4 Individuals can even send an open letter through the website to major corporations like Pepsi, and General Mills. In addition to joining the movement, Just Label it encourages its audience to oppose the DARK Act. The DARK Act- which stand for Americans the Right to was introduced by representatives Mike Pompeo and G. K. Butterfield. It is an anti- GMO labeling act that was passed by the house of representatives in 2015 (Just Label It Par. 3). Overall, labeling laws need to be put in place by the government because consumers can no longer be kept in the dark about what is in their food. The public has spoken and demanded that labeling laws should be enacted. Americans are nearly unanimous in supporting a labeling requirement for genetically modified food, a position that is almost impervious to arguments from the other side. The only remaining question is whether the FDA will continue to be about the only group in America opposed to labeling (Mellman, Par. 10). Major corporations like the Grocery Manufacturers Association need to step up and follow through with labeling laws so they do not lose their consumers trust. It is also important that concerned individuals follow through and keep pushing their senates for labeling laws. Not allowing the public to know what is in their food would be an injustice to the American people. (WC: 1,200) Persaud 5 Works Cited Grocery Manufacturers Association. (GMA). 2017 http://www.gmaonline.org 16 Apr. 2017 Hirshberg, Gary. Labeling Makes TED. 6 Mar. 2013. Lecture. Just Label It. Just Label it. Sept, 2013. http://www.justlabelit.org/ 16. Apr. 2017 Mellman, Mark. want more labels on The Mellman Group. 17 Apr. 2012, 16 Apr. 2017. Robertson, Kai. Label Changes Affect Food Just Label it. 13 Sept, 2013. The Non-GMO Project. The Non-GMO Project, 2007, https://www.nongmoproject.org/ 16 Apr. 2017.