Student 1 Student Professor Kimber Wiggs, Composition I 15, Apr 2017 Homelessness Homelessness is the condition of people without an unending resort, for instance, a home or house. People who are down and out and destitute are as often as possible not ready to get and take care of peaceful, ensured, secure and adequate hotel. That implies we address lodging, pay, training, human services, aggressive behavior at home or domestic violence. People should work on addressing the smallest cause of the homelessness, which ends up a person being homeless in any case. We (everyone in a country that has homeless people including the government) additionally deal with anything that cause further damage to individuals who are homeless, because hurt that makes it much harder to end their homelessness. Most of homelessness issue are caused because of the irresponsibility, they have to ensure homeless children get educated, even though, they have no place to live aside from open spots. Homeless people should do the first step for helping themselves, so people can see how they really want to be better, which expectedly will inspire everybody to offer some help for them. Everywhere in the world homeless people think all what they have to do is asking for help, which is not the right thing. Homeless who are looking for job are more likely to have a home than who just sit on the corner of the street and try to gather some money from people who pass by. less people are lazy, they do not try hard enough, they are very idle, they do not take responsibility for their situation, they do not Student 2 control their most primal impulses, they do not know how to live with other people, they value their freedom above all else, they want to be homeless and/or they see a homeless life as the easy solution to many of their (Panadero, 16). Most of homeless can not take responsibilities, which is one of the elements that they think it is outside the ability to control of poor people, so they just gave up. That provs the point of homeless should do something in the first place. However, Panadero also said the government should be the first responsible for that, they should be more strict. Although, The government has done some really good programs such as the HB, which stands for Homebase that diminishes the people from being homeless and try to solve their prompt issues that could make them lose their house (Goodman et al, 16), but it still does not make an end to the homelessness, it is just helping to reduce it. The majorities who are homeless do not get access to the library and PCs as chances to enhance their lives. They see these things as approaches to dawdle amid the day and have a fabulous time. And this is the reason a hefty portion of these individuals will never escape the circumstances in without some kind of help from another person or the government. That is why the government has the most responsibilities because instead of completely get rid of the poverty or homelessness they just reduce it. Most of the homeless people end up being homeless Due to domestic violence. In 2013 more than 2.5 million children were homeless because of their families and that number was about 38 percent less in 2006 (Jetelina et al, 2016). Increasing in the percentage of homeless children that Katelyn mentioned in her article is absolutely a huge increase and that shows how there should be some strict laws for families. In the other hand, some families see the way they discipline their children is just normal so they Student 3 can prevent their children from taking drugs, be rationally addicted to alcohol or involved in crime. According to article (2008), prior research in this area has examined past criminal justice involvement of currently homeless That is why the parents often being more serious with their children, so they keep them away from criminals. In addition, there are afraid that their children, associated with complicated issues such as crime policy, the war on drugs, race, poverty, and economic with psychiatric (Draine, 2002). He identifies that the children should be kept away from a big problems especially the ones relate to politics. One of the biggest issues for homeless is having no healthcare and hospitals to treat them, which makes the rat of disease increase. On article that written in 2005, one-fourth and one-third of homeless persons have a serious mental illness such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, or major This is a big number of homeless who suffer chronic diseases and not easy to treat. Although, the homeless people get some money from people, but that is not enough to pay for a medical care or therapy. Therefore, as we know the homeless cannot afford great expenses. The only reason why they are not getting enough medical care is because the government does not provide sufficient hospitals for uninsured people. However, the government needs some help from the homeless, so they could offer everybody what they need. Parents and people all over the world see homelessness as a human rights issue. It is hard or even outlandish to go to class, to work, vote, keep a family together, on the off chance that you do not have nourishment to eat, social insurance for body and mind, or a home to live in (Ending Homelessness, 2016). Finishing and averting homelessness in America involves fundamental social equity. If people do what they see right, they will not be any Student 4 homeless in the street, but only being able to do or knowing what is wrong and right without doing any actin is not going to be effective or beneficial. In conclusion, homelessness is a really big issue throughout the world. However, the governments cannot afford it without any help from either people or the homeless. In addition the governments should be stricter in their laws or regulations so instead of providing needed things for the homeless people they should teach them to get it themselves. There is a well-known proverb or saying that says, Give a Man a Fish, and You Feed Him for a Day. Teach a Man To Fish, and You Feed Him for a (Chinese proverb). (WC: 1045) Student 5 Cited Works Draine, Jeffrey, of Social Disadvantage in Crime, Joblessness, and Homelessness Among Persons with Serious Mental Psychiatric Services 53.5 (2002): Web. Ending Homelessness Social Justice And Human Rights Changing Laws, Changing . Homelessnesslaw.org. N.p., 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Folsom, David P. and Risk Factors for Homelessness and Utilization of Mental Health Services Among 10, 340 Patients with Serious Mental Illness in a Large Public Mental Health American Journal of Psychiatry 162.2 (2005): Web. Goodman, Sarena, Peter Messeri, and Brendan Prevention in New York City: On Average, It Journal of Housing Economics 31. (2016): Web. Katelyn K. Jetelina, Jennifer M. Reingle Gonzalez, Paula M. Cuccaro, Melissa F. Peskin, Marc N. Elliott, Tumaini R. Coker, Sylvie Mrug, Susan L. Davies, Mark A. Schuster,. Association Between Familial Homelessness, Aggression, and Victimization Among Journal of Adolescent Health. Web. 22 Jan. 2016. Panadero Sonia, Juan, and Claudia Actors, Observers, And Causal Attributions Of Homelessness: Differences In Attribution For The Causes Of Homelessness Among Domiciled And Homeless People In Madrid American Journal of Orthopsychiatry 87.1 (2016): 15-22. Web. Student 6