Khaing 1 Aung Khaing Harley Campbell ENC1102.089 23 January 2017 Encouraging support for cancer research Everyone has heard of cancer and most of them have experienced people near to them passed away because of this deadly disease. Cancer has been a deadly illness for centuries, and people have been finding ways to cure this disease, but with so little success. Organizations, Universities, and many other group have been fighting cancer, raising fund from the country and charities that help research and cure. For people to be aware and act on the problem, advertisements have always been a good way to spread alerts, and encourage many people to care about it. Cancer Research Institute(CRI) is a non-profit organization that research immunotherapy to cure cancer. These images designed by CRI is aim to promote knowledge about cancer and help with donation for their research. With more people understanding their method to approach for curing cancer they can get more funds to put in research. Their goal is to beat cancer with immune system and finally remove cancer forever. The images use rhetorical appeals to show that everyone can know more about cancer and act right now, and bring more support from people as well as companies to come together to share the knowledge and get help from outside. They used many rhetorical appeal, Khaing 2 including pathos, ethos, logos, and Kairos to attract attentions and deliver message to audiences, convincing them to act and help with cancer research. Firstly, CRI is a non-profit organization founded in 1953 by Helen Coley Nauts, and has been researching about immune system since then It started when Mrs. Nauts was inspired by her work on non-surgical treatments Tormey). Now, CRI has grown bigger and become one of the leading non-profit organization that is exclusively to harnessing the immune power to conquer all Their goal is to absolutely remove cancer from the world by immune system. They are also working with many the well-known organizations like AACR and CIMT, to research ways to cure cancer. However, as a non-profit organization there is some problems on the fund that is use for research, therefore charity is very important to them. Just like in figure.1, they have advertisements on event that they held for charity and support. A journal written by Linda M. Scott said that even though purpose of picture is to represent reality, it is an unavoidably artificial matter (Scott 260). The point is that picture is an artificial surface that is highlighting information or idea that anyone want to deliver, and cannot be unseen because it is a picture, not words. That is why images have always been the major factor in advertising, because it is hard to miss or ignore. The first image, presents a coming up event that CRI is holding in West Point, New York on June 10, 2017 which give the information for time and place, making aware that this Khaing 3 is not just an advertisement for show, but an event. This image is legitimate by the sponsor, Bristol-Myers Squibb, and the organization itself has the credibility, indicate one of the ethos presented in the image. Therefore, with the name of organization on top and its sponsor at the bottom, this image showcase ethos simply represents themselves. In an article about the strategies of ethos, Higgins wrote that the purpose of ethos is to credibility for the role, positioning and characterization of the referenced from Beason (Higgins 197). The biggest phrase in figure.1 is To featuring the main idea of this advertisement, where cancer is a problem and CRI is the answer. The man is wearing a shirt with same logo, represent that he is part of the event. This man also seems to be riding bicycle up the hill, portraying pathos of hardness of cancer, because many people are suffering, and treatments are still not very effective. Also, research of cancer will take a lot of time, it is a long race that they want to end as soon as possible, and the man looks like he is racing against the time. With camera focus on the man, the picture give a focus view with a blurry background that make people look at the man but not the town behind him. This direct the audiences to view what CRI thinks and is more important. The in the figure provide Kairos for the image, it is in hot color that stands out among the other, and with exclamation mark the phrase looks stronger. It is a web advertisement and by clicking the it prompt user to a form where they can register or donate. Khaing 4 In the same way, figure.2 is also an advertisement made by CRI to help gain support from the public. This picture includes people like doctor, family, patient, they are smiling even though they are fighting against cancer, and this make people emotional because the topic is about cancer. In figure.2, one of the sentences is in blue; which usually represent sadness. Colors increase the whole experiences, and makes people feel emotions, has shown that different colors stimulate varying personal moods and (Lin 168). The sentences in blue said the answer to and below said the power of which serve as the organization and their goal. The image encourages people to join the and meet with other patients, this is persuading people to care about the cure method, and tell them that they can do something about it. Logically thinking, if a person knows more about the problem, and it is also emotional, he/she would want to do something about it. Also, with white color, it separate other sentences away, make it easy to read. Another noticeable visual is the brightness of the pictures and sentences, because of the dim background other component standout more. In Mr. journal, he wrote perceptions of light influence their perceptions of the (Lin 169). This is what the image is doing; it focusses on the component that it wants to present by reducing the unwanted. Second image is also an online advertisement that provide external link that is accessible, and it is the Kairos of this image. The WITH logo is to persuade people to join the community. By learning more about the Khaing 5 people involved in the topic, and saying with make the audiences feel close to the people about the topic. It is a prediction of what a normal would think. Overall, the images that CRI made to advertise about what they do, and encourage to take part in their research, emphasize their goal on bring more people to get involve. Both picture have strong existence thanks to the color mixing and view focus which draws attention. They did a good job on telling the audience what they are and what they do, with short and clean phrase which is easy to interpret. For example, to alone tell the audience about the problem they are tackling with, and again is very clear to be the answer. Figure.1 and figure.2 is sending message that everyone can join and help them easily. In these images they represent their organization, purpose, reason, and goal in a two-dimension media, and at the same time, get the support they want in return with results and information. These all lead to the main idea of the image, to act on the problem, now. Khaing 6 Work Cited Higgins, Colin, and Rabyn Walker. Ethos, logos, pathos: Strategies of persuasion in social/environmental  Accounting forum, vol. 36, no. 3 ,2012, 194-208, doi: 10.1016/j.accfor.2012.02.003. Lin, Ingrid Y. Evaluating a servicescape: the effect of cognition and  International journal of hospitality management, vol. 23, no. 2, 2004, doi: 10.1016/j.ijhm.2003.01.001. Jill. About  Cancer Research Institute. CRI, 16 Feb. 2009, http://www.cancerresearch.org/about. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Jill. Our  Cancer Research Institute. CRI, 16 Feb. 2009, http://www.cancerresearch.org/about/history. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Scott, Linda M. Images in advertising: The need for a theory of visual  The Journal of consumer research, vol. 21, no. 2, 1994, 252-273, doi: 10.1086/209396. Khaing 7 Figure.1 Figure.2