Ceballos 1 Eric Ceballos ENC 1102 4/15/2017 Jarad Fennel The Flaws of the Factory Farming Industry Factory farming has recently grown to be the leading cause of global warming. Animal agriculture, otherwise known as factory farming, is the mass production of animal produce. The goal is to produce the greatest quantity of meat and poultry at the cheapest price. Factory farming began in 1926 on the Delmarva Peninsula in Delaware when a chicken farmer accidentally received an over-order delivery of 450 chickens when he normally received around 250, instead of returning the chickens, the farmer decided to keep them and test if the chickens could survive the winter. With the last few days of winter ending, the farmer was amazed all the chickens survived. The farmer realized he can produce a much larger amount of chicken using the same amount of space. Factory farming begins; today over nine billion chickens are slaughtered every year as reported by sanctuary.org. United Nations Population Division estimates that there will be 9 billion humans on the planet by 2050. According to the FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization, United Nations), meat production will double worldwide by that same year, 2050, unless demand falters Due to the population growing so quickly, it is necessary to increase the production of animal produce. However, the effects of this boost come at a greater cost than many people may think. Education is the foundation of a career, the knowledge acquired in school is used to solve everyday problems. If an environmental course was mandatory to take in high school or college, more people would be aware of the detrimental effects animal agriculture causes. Ceballos 2 There are many underlying problems associated within the animal agriculture industry such as large water wastage, enormous land usage, and toxic methane emissions. Factory farms are large operational factories that produce immense amounts of meat. The amount of water used on growing, maintaining, and transporting animals is extremely inefficient. According to the article Arguments for a Greener published by the Center for Science in the Public Interest, feed crops for livestock produces 56% of the water in the (Jacobson). That does not include the water needed to keep the animals alive. The amount of water humans drink does not even reach half the amount we use for livestock. Looking deeper into water waste, Oxford University posted a journal titled Resources: Agricultural and Environmental In this journal scholars discussed the issues that caused water wastage. One fact that stood above others was that hundred gallons of water are needed to produce 1 pound of (Pimentel). An average twenty-one-foot pool contains thirteen thousand five hundred gallons of water, according to reference.com. Six pounds of meat, or one swimming pool. Animal agriculture is so destructive it produces more carbon dioxide emissions than all transportation exhaust in the world (Steinfeld). It is responsible for 18% of all greenhouse gasses according to long written by Henning Seinfeld a writer for the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Think of every car, bus, train, boat and plane, all of the carbon those machines produce does not even match the carbon that animal agriculture produces. Talk about land, covers 45% of the earths total (Thornton). Almost half of earths entire terrain is used to raise livestock. Now think about the employees who must work ineceb the slaughter houses, killing thousands of animals daily. emotional effects of such employment, especially at the end stage, are considerable. According to slaughterhouse expert Temple Grandin, it is not unusual for the employees to become sadistic, literally brutalized by Ceballos 3 what they must do hourly and daily. In terms of physical health alone, the consequences are serious for factory farm-related employees Imagine a job where you are constantly slaughtering animals, what do they dream of at night? Murder, brutality. Not only does factory farming leave a harmful footprint on the earth, it also effects the thousands of employees involved in the mass slaughtering of animals. Are you in disbelief? Have the stunning facts affected your thought about consuming meat and poultry? Well I have the solution to your problems. Quit eating meat. Let us face it, meat is delicious. I myself enjoy the taste of a nice juicy steak, but after researching and gaining knowledge about the truth of factory farming I quickly turned the steak on my plate to a vegetarian meal. Now I am not saying to completely put an end to eating red meat. However, I am asking you to reduce the amount of red meats and poultry you consume. Health is a big word thrown around now a day. Everybody wants to be healthy, I can tell you that meat is in fact healthy when consumed in small proportional sizes. As stated in Choosemyplate.gov which has a section named and health This page serves to give the benefits of eating certain foods poultry, fish, dry beans and peas, eggs, nuts, and seeds supply many nutrients. These include protein, B vitamins (niacin, thiamin, riboflavin, and B6), vitamins (niacin, thiamin, riboflavin, and B6), vitamin E, iron, zinc, and Lean Meat and poultry, fish, eggs, tofu, nuts and seeds and ). Vitamin B helps in the functioning of the nervous system, repair tissues, and produce red blood cells. Iron is used to carry oxygen through the blood, Magnesium is used in building bones and releasing energy from muscles Lean Meat and poultry, fish, eggs, tofu, nuts and seeds and ) If we continue to consume produce at an increasing rate, the world with envisage drastic problems in the near future. Land will be limited due to a large portion dedicated to farms, water Ceballos 4 will be scarce, methane emissions in the atmosphere will be sky high and the effects of that lead to the earth warming. There is no sustainable future without limiting the production of factory farming. Educating yourself is the first step to fighting against ending factory farming. Next time you go to the grocery store think twice about ordering the cheapest chicken or meat, maybe try getting your protein source from an alternative food such as lentils, or beans. Take the next step to ensuring a sustainable future. Ceballos 5 Citations Steinfeld, Henning. Long Stock . Rome: Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, 2006. Print. Pimentel, David, and Bonnie Berger. Water Resources: Agricultural and Environmental  BioScience Oxford Academic. Oxford University Press, 01 Oct. 2004. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Pluhar, Evelyn B. Meat and Morality: Alternatives to Factory  Journal of Agriculture and Environmental Ethics (October 1, 2010): n. pag. USF Library database . Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Tax  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Thornton , Philip.  International Livestock Research Institute 2011: 1- 3Print.