Velez Madison Velez ENC 2011 Professor Smith The Effect of Animal Agriculture on the Earth and its Inhabitants The topic of the consumption of meat has been one of great relevance in recent years. More and more, people of influence (celebrities, political leaders, social-media stars) have taken a stand against such diets and begun to alter their own eating habits in hopes of inspiring others to do the same. Vegan and vegetarian diets have become extremely popular, with entire cookbooks being written on how to follow such strict dietary rules. What is the point of this transition, though, and is it truly making a difference in the lives of those who follow through with it? Surprisingly, the elimination of meat and dairy in everyday meals has a significant impact on many factors. The effects of the industries that supply these products are beginning to become detrimental to the Earth and those who inhabit it. Although seen as necessary for some to eat, animal agriculture is a harmful business that destroys the planet as well as human health. Animal agriculture involves the practice of raising animals for the sole purpose of consumption or manufacturing of animal products. This has many negative effects on the Earth. First, the populations of animals are depleting rapidly. As told by Dr. Christopher Hyner, graduate of Stanford Law, when there once used to be billions of fish, there are now only a few million, which is a drastic decline (Hyner). This is an issue because, besides causing a species to become endangered, it causes harm to those animals which act as predators to the fish. The species that live off of fish will lose their food supply, Velez which will then cause their population to decline, causing a Domino Effect. Another animal group this is directly affecting is wolves. Naturally, wolves hunt livestock for a source of food. Farmers have grown tired of having their livestock being eaten and losing profit, so they have begun to kill the wolves themselves. The Pacific Northwest has seen a large decline in wolf populations, which will inevitably affect every other organism in that area (Hyner). Aside from just a dwindling animal population, the practice of animal agriculture causes the Earth to suffer as well. Farmers are overproducing animals, especially cows. Because of this, they constantly need to make more room for their cows. This leads to deforestation, which is essentially clearing out wide areas of trees so that the livestock will have a place to graze. The Pachamama Alliance, a global community centered around creating a sustainable human presence, explains that doing this leads to many negative effects, including climate change, soil erosion, fewer space for crops, flooding, and an increase in greenhouse gases in the atmosphere (Pachamama). Of course, with the destruction of the Earth comes the demise of both humans and animals alike. Another environmental factor that animal agriculture effects is the amount of food available for people to consume. It takes billions of gallons of water and grain to keep cows alive (Hyner). Former Cornell student David Pimentel found that with that water and grain, 800 million people could be fed (Pimentel). Feeding America, an organization whose goal is to raise awareness of hunger in America, states that in America alone, around 45.7 million people go to bed hungry every night (Feeding America). This abundance of food and water could not only be used to help the hungry in the United States, but also those experiencing a shortage of food overseas. As said by the United Nations, livestock Velez business is among the most damaging to the increasingly scarce water (United Nations). Water and food are so difficult for some to have access to, so to think that billions of gallons/tons are being used on animals instead of humans is quite wasteful. Aside from just taking up an incredible amount of resources, the raising of livestock also accounts for more greenhouse gases than all forms of transportation put together (United Nations). These greenhouse gases cause the air to be unclean, pollution, acid rain, temperature change, and a slew of other environmental issues that will be impossible to reverse once they get started (United Nations). Future generations will have a very difficult time trying to survive on this planet when it is being destroyed at such a rapid rate. Perhaps the scariest effect of the consumption of meat is the downfall of human health. As explained by the National Institute of Health, which is the leading public funder of biomedical research in the world, the consumption of red meat has been linked to an increased risk of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and certain cancers (National Institutes of Health). A study done by the Harvard School of Public Heath proved hat in a pool of 100,000 participants done over four years, those who ate red meat once every single day had an increased mortality rate of 13%, and those who had two servings had a rate of 20%. By the end of the four-year study, 24,000 participants had died, which scientists concluded that 16.9% of those deaths could have been prevented with better diets (National Institutes of Health). Further, the National Library of Medicine, the largest biomedical library, has found that consumption is associated with central obesity among US adults (National Library of Medicine). Society is so used to Velez believing meat is always good for them and just eating it, without taking into account the toll it can have on the body. When discussing the possibility of moving the nation over to a meat-free, dairy- free diet, most say it is impossible. This is mostly due to the lack of equal funding across the country. A lot of rural areas are miles away from any grocery store that carries alternatives to meat- fresh fruits, organic vegetables, and even imitation meats. This causes the inhabitants on that area to have to either rely on what the grocery store is carrying that week, or eat an excessive amount of fast food. These areas of vast inequality and lack of resources are called food deserts. What, then, can be done to improve the opportunists these communities have to eat better food? Some neighborhoods have put together initiatives to get the people in the local area excited about eating healthier. For example, there is a convenience store in Philadelphia that will give anyone who purchases a fifty-cent piece of fruit one dollar in return (Wright). There also needs to be government involvement. A society is only as strong as its weakest link so, if half of all American adults are expected to be obese by the year 2050, the work force of this nation has been all but cut in half. Scientific studies show that those who are overweight must take more time off work compared to those who are in shape (Wright). This responsibility falls on the government and what they make available to the public. With a better division of resources such as money and fresh foods, many of these areas could be drastically helped and changed for the better. All in all, it would be hard to stop meat and dairy consumption. However, doing so would improve the health of animals, the Earth, and humans. With intervention and Velez conscious decision, some of the negative effects already taking place could be reversed and new issues could be stopped. Velez Works Cited Cornell. U.S. could feed 800 million people with grain that livestock eat, Cornell ecologist advises animal scientists Cornell Chronicle. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Hyner, Christopher. A Leading Cause of Everything: One Industry That Is Destroying Our Planet and Our Ability to Thrive on  Stanford Law Review 27.1 (2015): 209. Web. Feeding America. Hunger and Poverty Facts and  Feeding America. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Freston, Kathy. Startling Effects of Going Vegetarian for Just One Alternet. N.p., 02 Apr. 2009. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Pachamama Alliance. Effects of Deforestation The Pachamama  Pachamama Alliance. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. United Nations. Rearing cattle produces more greenhouse gases than driving cars, UN report  UN News Center. United Nations, 29 Nov. 2006. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Risk in Red  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 02 July 2015. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Wang, Y., and MA Beydoun. Meat consumption is associated with obesity and central obesity among US  International Journal of Obesity (2005). U.S. National Library of Medicine, June 2009. Web. 15 Apr. Velez 2017. Wright, James, et al. Food Deserts: What Is the Problem? What Is the  Society, vol. 53, no. 2, Apr. 2016, pp. 171-181. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s12115-016-9993-8.