Pretty 1 Brandon Pretty 04-30-17 ENC1102 Project 3 Final Draft Private military and security contractors are men and women who work for contracting firms in a variety of roles from training police and military units to providing security and humanitarian aid. Though PMSC is a contemporary term the history of people fighting under a contract and for a price extends as far back as the beginning of civilization. It is a thankless and invisible task where more often times then not, overgeneralized and considered controversial. The majority of PMSCs uphold international codes of ethics and laws even though they obligated to, and most of them are former soldiers and police officers who were decorated in the service. There are several organizations who believe that this job should be outlawed, but without them the foundations of democracy could collapse and many of us be able to live our lives as we do now. PMSCs have contributed immensely to several global efforts including the fight against terrorism, poaching and efforts to train military forces in developing countries. Though many times the criticisms for using them are vague at best they have succeeded in combating dangerous terrorists when state forces have failed to do so. Criticisms have included unethical tactics, destabilization of developing governments and even interfering with UN peacekeepers. But David Pfotenhauer from the Defense refutes this by highlighting success in hiring African-based firm STTEP, the operational and tactical expertise that their involvement brought, the use of STTEP compensated, to a degree, for the organisational Pretty 2 deficiencies that bedevilled the NDF[Nigerian Defense in its long-running campaign against Boko This the first time that PMSCs have fought for countries and saved them in the face of failure though. In new countries like Kosovo they protect military bases and train personnel alongside the US military, work with the Columbian military to stop drug lords, and fight in South Africa against poachers. One example is Protrack who detail on that the first private anti-poaching unit and dedicate themselves to stop such evil acts. In addition many organizations have signed Montreux Document, is a voluntarily signed document where international firms pledge to uphold the law and a code of ethics no matter where they operate in the world. These men and women willing to fight battles that affect millions have just as much of a right to work as anyone, and they be stigmatized for the actions of a few. They are not only hardworking but have obligated themselves at the risk of their own lives to work for years so that we can prosper. There have been several instances that Global Policy Forum, a UN watchdog organization and news sites have reported on regarding human rights and ethical violations. Alain Vicky Le Monde wrote on the labor abuses by US companies in Iraq, Nisha Lilia Diu of Telegraph a DynCorp employee who was fired after exposing a sex trafficking ring, and Jeremy Scahill from reported how Blackwater operatives who massacred civilians in Iraq were being charged with manslaughter. Another incident is the Abu Garib prison tortures, which GPF wrote about the involvement of PMSCs in torturing terrorists. The problem with most of these claims however is that they are set to represent all contractors instead of the minority, and not only that but almost of these kinds of instances are because of a handful of companies. ACADEMI, which was formally known as Pretty 3 Blackwater has since become incorporated into Engility Corporation and all employees who have been involved in such heinous acts have either resigned or been arrested. Since joining Engility their has been no reports of any such activity and they have now been reformed for softer security tasks and computer engineering. Another issue with critics singling out all PMSCs is that actions such as the Abu Garib tortures have been done on the behalf of governments. Contractors are hired for tasked they know little about and are forced into situations like this so that governments can have plausible deniability and easily point towards a scapegoat. This kind of action is seen with the Russians fighting in Ukraine being used as a proxy for the Russian government or the contractors currently in Afghanistan. PMSCs do not deserve to be used as scapegoats and restricted from doing there jobs because of the actions of a few people, and this is critical for the public to understand that this shameless patsying is unwarranted and not deserving. It is possible to stop this and shine a better light on the good deeds of PMSCs and the truth about them. The first is to organize online through platforms such as Facebook, Instagram and Twitter in order to provide support. In the last decade social media has been the fastest growing method used to popularize causes and to people with a common viewpoint all around the world. Social media sites also contain dozens of groups about contractors where they are more then willing to talk about what their jobs are like, what they do, and help the public separate fact from fiction about their world. Lastly, you can contact your UN representative with a letter of support through writing campaigns that could be organized through online platforms. PMSCs are an important thing to support because they operate not only in developing countries but also in our own. They are the ones who transfer money in and out of Pretty 4 banks, provide security for concerts and businesses, and they even install our home alarm systems. Many of these organizations also train to operate in humanitarian aid missions whenever there is a natural disaster. For example, when Hurricane Katrina tore apart Baton Rouge PMSCs were the only ones keeping order and providing aid at the same time. Even quite recently when people were rioting in Baltimore and shooting at each other, security contractors were protecting local businesses and retailers from being robbed and losing everything. Contractors untrained individuals that run around the world blowing things up, dedicated human beings that protect and serve in a thankless profession. Without them democracy ceases to function as the USA would only be able to control people through a police state. PMSCs have allowed this country to function and what happens to them affects every single American. Though we are all living in a world of uncertainty, most people in the US will spend most of their lives in relative safety. Sadly the rest of the world able to, and private military and security contractors are part of the effort to bring peace. Contractors part of destructive terrorist organizations, poachers or rampaging governments but are the ones who fight that same exact tyranny. They protect aid workers when they go into hostile zones to help the sick and unfortunate and are willing to work 24/7 to protect those the rest of the world forgets about. They never ask for praise or glorify their tasks, only do what they are told and uphold themselves to the highest ethical and moral standards. Not only do PMSCs deserve the respect of being human but they deserve praise and the right to continue to work on behalf of the human race. History has proven that mercenaries have been the reason why empires have risen and why people have lived in peace, and these modern day version do nothing less except carry this age old tradition. Pretty 5 Works Cited Protection Services and Training Programme. Anti Poaching Unit, 2011, Accessed 16 April 2017. New. Global Policy Forum, 2017, https://www.globalpolicy.org/home.html. Accessed 12 Feb. 2017. Montreux Document on Pertinent International Legal Obligations and Good Practices for States related to Operations of Private Military and Security Companies during Armed International Committee of the Red Cross and Swiss Federal Department of Foreign Affairs, 17 Sept. 2008, Retrieved from Accessed 12 Feb. 2017. Pfotenhaur, David. CASE FOR PRIVATE CONTRACTORS IN NORTHERN Defense Review, Jan. 2016, Accessed 16 April 2017. Scahill, Jeremy. Youngest  The Nation, N.p., 29 June 2015, www.thenation.com/article/blackwaters-youngest-victim. Accessed 12 Feb. 2017. Pretty 6 Vicky, Alain. Cheap help from  Le Monde Diplomatique, N.p., 01 May 2012, http://mondediplo.com/2012/05/05uganda. Accessed 12 Feb. 2017. Diu, Nisha Lilia. What the UN Want You to  The Telegraph, 6 Feb. 2012, www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/film/9041974/What-the-UN-Doesnt-Want-You-to-Know.ht ml. Accessed 12 Feb. 2017.