Allen 1 Amanda Allen Mariama M. Changamire English Composition II 10 March 2017 Animal Testing The daily products we use for makeup, skincare, or to medicate ourselves require to go through animal testing. What most people fail to realize are the laboratory animals that take part in testing for these products. Animals who are tested on experience poor conditions including suffering, such as long-term social isolation, electric shocks, withholding of food and water, or repeated breeding and separating of infants from and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), is an organization that fights for animal rights such as safety, proper living conditions, and alterative research for experimentation Mission PETA also mentions in its mission statement that it policymakers and the public about animal abuse and promotes kind treatment of About PETA effectively supports its argument to end animal testing and provide alternative solutions through two examples of visual rhetoric. Instantly both images capture and inform audiences of the unnecessary and cruel testing animals repeatedly experience. One of the many ways PETA highlights animal testing as a major issue is with a variety of statistics. These statistics viewed in image A, display how money from taxpayers is wasted on with these animal related experiments. For instance, the University of Utah spends $500,000 of grant money from tax payers to start heart attacks in dogs, Tax Season: Learn How More Than $12 Billion in Taxpayer Money Is Wasted In addition, this image also includes Allen 2 important information about medications that have failed even though it has been animal tested. As mentioned in the section of Image A, the drugs that are shown to be safe and effective in animal tests, 92% fail in human trial because they work or are Tax Season: Learn How More Than $12 Billion in Taxpayer Money Is Wasted In accordance to image A, PETA is validating that even though medications have been animal tested most the time those medications will be ineffective. The American Anti-Vivisection Society (AAVS), also states that research has never proven to be better than other models, nor particularly successful at with Animal Thus, further stating that animal testing is not as accurate nor reliable as it seems. PETA continues to gain its attention with different colors and a various number of graphs. Image A uses patriotic colors which reflects a sense of unity. It creates the audience to feel as though it is their civic duty to protect these animals. Due to PETA being a large advocate for animal rights, it makes sense for them to share a picture that connects our rights as Americans to the rights of animals because it is the ethical choice to make. With Image A incorporating the pie chart and bar graph, highlights the effect animal testing does not have on human medications. The bar graph in image A entitled Deaths by notes the drugs listed were not safe in animal testing but were later found to be lethal to Tax Season: Learn How More Than $12 Billion in Taxpayer Money Is Wasted The medications tested on include Vioxx, Rezulin, Propulsid, and Oraflex. At the bottom of image A, reveals the amount of money taxpayers have spent on animal testing, which is $12 billion. With that money, PETA states ways that we can help improve education system, provide meals for seniors who are without food, provide more federal income tax, or finically support homeless veterans Tax Season: Learn How More Than $12 Billion in Taxpayer Money Is Allen 3 Wasted These are examples of how PETA utilizes image A to grasp the attention with startling yet important facts that stresses more so on the issue of animal testing. Image B also provides immediate attention to this issue with a photograph from official website, which shows a rabbit that has been experimented on, Testing Is Bad Science: Instantly the audience is saddened and horrified by the condition in which the rabbit is in. Looking closely at the rabbit, this animal has been severely mutilated and one can clearly see that the fur has been burned off to its skin. With PETA sharing this image, the audience immediately wants to help this rabbit and ensure its safety as well as the safety of other laboratory animals. Furthermore, the positioning of camera in which is facing directly at the rabbit, draws the attention closer to the animal itself. The camera is positioned at a higher angle which intentionally causes the rabbit to look smaller and more defenseless. Looking closer at the camera angle it also appears that the rabbit is at an object position angle. This indicates that the photographer of this image intended to make the rabbit be viewed as an object rather than an actual animal. This is a common theme for laboratories to make an animal seem more of an object to experimented on, than to be an animal that is properly treated with care. PETA proves this by criticizing the Animal Welfare Act (AWA) stating: only U.S. law that governs the use of animals in laboratories, the Animal Welfare Act (AWA), allows animals to be burned, shocked, poisoned, isolated, starved, forcibly restrained, addicted to drugs, and brain-damaged. No experiment, no matter how painful or trivial, is painkillers are not even required. Even when alternatives to the use of animals are available, U.S. law does not require that they be often they Because the AWA specifically excludes rats, mice, birds, and cold-blooded animals, more than 95 percent of the animals used in laboratories are not even covered by Allen 4 the minimal protection provided by federal Testing Is Bad Science: PETA considers this relevant information about the AWA because not only are animals mistreated with in experiments even though policies like the AWA claim differently, some species are not considered to be animals. PETA also continues to stress that these animal related experiments are meaningless and offer no real solution to cure diseases, but are malicious. The Humane Society International (HIS), agrees that animal testing is cruel and states that scientists are increasingly questioning the relevance of research aimed at  human diseases in the laboratory by artificially creating symptoms in other animal Wrong with Animal Overall PETA makes its argument with image B, that regardless what the purpose is experimentation upon animals is violent and unnecessary. In summation, both images from website exemplify the brutality animals in laboratory experiments go through. In addition, PETA also highlights amount of money taxpayers waste on by condoning animal testing, and what Americans can improve in their country with that money spent. PETA successfully addresses animal testing as issue that needs to be ended immediately by striking these graphic visual rhetorical appeals to its audience. Instantly audience feels sympathetic to these creatures but at the same time feel enraged that people can be so cruel to innocent animals. The combination of these emotions and gained knowledge of laboratory animals unite people to end this, and offer alternative solutions that are more reliable as well as moral. Word Count: 1202 Allen 5 Works Cited About Animal  Humane Society International. Humane Society International, n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. About  PETA. PETA, n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Animal Testing Is Bad Science:  PETA. PETA, n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-experimentation/animal-testing-bad- science/> Tax Season: Learn How More Than $12 Billion in Taxpayer Money Is Wasted  PETA. PETA, n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/features/taxpayer-money- wasted-annually-animal-testing/> Problems with Animal  American Anti-Vivisection Society. AAVS, n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Society, New England Anti-Vivisection. Animals in Science /  Harm and Suffering. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Allen 6 http://www.peta.org/features/taxpayer-money-wasted-annually-animal-testing/ Image A Allen 7 http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-experimentation/animal-testing-bad-science/ Image B