Salem 1 Sulaiman Salem Mrs. Nancy Carr ENC 1101.004S17 9 April 2017 Case for the Renewable Resources always needed energy to go about our daily lives for heating food, light at night, etc., however over the course of the late 1800s we needed more of it. Along with the increasing global population, where in 1970 the global population doubled from its figures 50 years ago in 1920, summing the amount up to 4 billion. Here is where the non-renewables hit their stride beginning with oil and natural gas, the discoveries of the underground oil reserves across the globe that were at the time untapped sources of energy and cheap energy at that. Being that the extraction of these resources was a more mechanised process than that of coal extraction which required manual labourers to actually mine and collect the resources, this meant that the process of extraction of the new resources, oil and natural gas, can be done with a smaller workforce making it a much cheaper source of energy. Many countries through these discoveries have went on a conquest to become the leaders in oil and natural gas reserves on the chance to secure the future of their countries economies and not be in danger to fluctuating trading trends because of the guarantee that people will always need energy and this is the main sources for now and the near future. This has lead many countries to go into wars to try and capture these reserves, for example the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in which president of Iraq at the time Saddam Salem 2 Hussein saw the potential revenue the oil reserves of its neighbouring country would bring and decided to act on it. These heinous acts have been done and over with during the 2000s and now the new race is that of the energy of the future. The race incompasses all parts of our societies from government, private companies and even research projects all looking for the next step. Even one of the top companies within the oil industry has branched out and started branch out so that they shift their income into new aspects adapting the future change within the energy field. These research projects and branching out is as a result of the majority of the global population realising that there are grounds that we must shift more into the future. Global Warming, is one of the grounds that the global population became aware off. It basically is when the average surface temperature rises due to the effect of greenhouse gases, such carbon dioxide and methane, which trap the heat that would otherwise escape the atmosphere. These greenhouse gases have greatly increased since the mass production of cheap energy, oil and natural gas. Data collected by the EPA (Environmental Protection Agency) show extreme spikes in carbon dioxide emissions especially which is a main bi-product to all the energy plants we have in use. Evidence that shows the effect of global warming are the rising sea levels, global temperature rise, glacier retreats, and ocean acidification amongst many others. Rising sea levels to begin with are a direct concern to the many countries of Southeast Asia since most of them are islands so this phenomenon may cause some parts of these countries to be submerged underwater in due time. Global temperature rise has already been causing draughts in several countries within central region of the African continent creating problems to livelihood within those countries. Glacier retreats are particularly shown when an aerial shot of a mountain peak is taken in which shows in recent years that these peaks are starting to show Salem 3 if you will, meaning that the ice sheets that used to cover these peaks is slowly melting off. Ocean acidification is giving marine life a real hit causing death to most of the coral reef ecozones that are close to country shores. With that said, human activity has been stated as the primary reason for the bigger crisis of global climate change with 97-98% of researchers of the field agreeing on that. Being that it takes millions of years for non-renewable resources, such as coal, natural gas, and oil, to be created, if we continue with the rate of extraction we are at it will end soon. The discovery of new oil reserves has seen a rapid decrease at the turn of the century and many scientists have estimated that we will be in a state of declining oil production in the years to come, estimating it happening 20-40 years from now. With that you may see a huge gap within countries economies that are reliant on the non-renewable industry being created. However, this domain of renewable energy has no known boundaries yet, therefore workforces will have be put into place to find out and explore this domain of renewable resources and will lead to many jobs being created. When results show positive signs and breakthroughs, which are bound to happen in such uncharted fields, they will boost the economies of countries across the world hopefully returning what the countries have put in and invested into the domain. One of the companies that have taken the first step towards the right direction is ExxonMobil where they are exploring the realm advanced lower-emissions energy technologies. ExxonMobil Research and Engineering Company, is one faction of ExxonMobil that have been studying biofuels, which are basically algae and plants that can be chemically or biologically turned into fuel for your car. Counter-arguments have been made, as they do to massive topics like this one and I shall elaborate on some of them. The first argument is that of the warming cycle, to the Salem 4 opposition just the mere fact that it has been historically proven that the earth has had cycles of warming up and cooling back down again discredits the seriousness of our claim that global warming is happening because of human activity. What they do not take into account is the fact previous cycles that happened the amount of carbon dioxide was always below 300 parts per million until 1950 when we took the jump above the 300 and continued on rising until reaching our current carbon dioxide level of 400 parts per millions. Therefore, the cycle that has occurred natural several times over the past couple of hundred thousand years is now disrupted due to the increased masses of carbon dioxide from mostly human activity. These people must understand also that global warming is not all being affected and it is not the only symptom of the bigger issue that is global climate change meaning that the climate and weather all over the globe will turn to the more extreme and that means hotter summers, larger scale storms as well as colder winters. Another argument, is the one in which the opposition says that if countries were to go through with this plan of mitigating towards the renewables and switching the non-renewable energy out for them that process of mitigation would be very expensive to go through considering how deep and already immersed in the non-renewable energy industry countries are in with the non-renewable resources and some governments might not be able to afford it. However, governments should not look at a complete 180 solution in which we insert the renewables into the non-renewables slot within economy and industry, which is what replying to when saying it will cost too much, because that will not work. Countries must look towards the long haul and the eventual replacement of non-renewable energy with renewable energy. Currently for that there are many solutions, one of them is to make it a competitive field Salem 5 for private companies to move forward with innovations and that takes away most of the cost and the workload from governments hands and are merely expected to come in the end and double check the results with scientists within government sectors that can verify the legitimacy of the results. With that countries and world leaders have to also take it upon themselves to place government spending wisely into the right sectors and head towards the future rather than heading backwards into what worked in the past. To conclude, I would just like to emphasize the thought that we must work towards building the knowledge or at least acknowledgement, on the matter within the political field so that governments may realise its importance because without the government no substantial movement shall be made to mitigate away from non-renewable resources and then all be in trouble. This is shown through marches and rallies that have been going on since the beginning of the year. These marches and rallies, further solidify and reminds the governments that they were put in place to serve the people of their respective countries and in a more larger scale all people of this earth and views should not be put aside when addressing any topic.