1 Homayoun Kamali Erika Staiger 01/05/2017 ENC1102 More Education, Less Violence America is the most well armed nation in the world, according to the small Arms Survey 2007 by the Geneva based Graduate Institute of International Studies, citizens own about 270 million of the 875 million (Maclnnis). Today in the United States, gun control is an extremely serious and important issue. There are two sides to every subject, some people are against it and some people are for it. As in this case, there are different opinions where the National Rifle Association (NRA) thinks that guns are for the better since they are used for protection by responsible citizens, whereas others believe that guns are dangerous to be kept and used and that it should not be owned by anyone and only be used by the people who are in charge of protecting the citizens such as the National Guard and law enforcement. Owning a gun is safe to the point where someone gets hurt accidentally or deliberately. In one small moment, everything can change, the lives of so many people, attached to a gun like a thread. Additionally, the gun control in the United States allows anyone to own a gun that also includes teenagers where they can do anything at anytime. Guns are not only a danger to others but also to the people who use it. more people kill themselves with a firearm each year than are murdered with one. In 2010 in the U.S., 19,392 people committed suicide with guns, compared with 11,078 who were killed by (Drexler). The reason that people feel gun ownership is such a problem is that so many people lose their lives by them each year. Guns lead to increase in crime, murder and even suicide at any age. Moreover, guns are irreversible solution to what is often a passing crisis. different 2 Homayoun Kamali with guns, once the trigger is pulled; there is no turning back. The plan is simply to stop the gun violence in the United States and it can be achieved by protesting through different communities such as the Greek association connections and donation through all campuses. By reducing availability of guns and providing education on gun safety, a better environment can be created. Among developed nations, America is by far the most violent, a large part due to the easy access many Americans have to guns. Some people think that owning a gun is safe because they can protect themselves in the situations of risk. But what they think about is that guns take lives in just a few seconds. Sometimes it happens by accident that someone shoots a person and sometimes it Both ways, a result of a death and this happens because we allow this for ourselves. This happens because guns are allowed to the people who be in charge of anything. There are people for every job, teachers to teach, sellers to sell, and many other jobs. Therefore it is the duty of National Guards and policemen to protect the country and the citizens. An ongoing and highly debated social problem that continues to grow in our society today is the gun control epidemic. Wayne LaPierre, the executive director of National Rifle Association once said, only thing that stops the bad guy with a gun is a good guy with a (Grimes). But is this true? If the good guy stops the bad guy with a gun, then what is the difference between the good guy and the bad guy? They are both committing violence, an inadequate solution to the problem. According to Professor David Hemenway of Harvard School of public health who has published numerous academic investigations in this are, defensive gun use may occasionally occur successfully, it is rare and very much the exception, it does not change the fact that actually owning and using a firearm hugely increases the risk of being shot (Grimes). Therefore, guns should be in the hands of those who are in charge and are fighting for the safety. Guns lead to disasters and owning a gun just adds 3 Homayoun Kamali more and more to this mess. People are protected by the National Guards so they have to a gun for their safety. By creating a community and protesting, the USF team is hoping to reduce gun availability. I believe guns increase crimes, murder and even suicide. With this law anyone can own a gun and with a gun they can do lots of things that affect their surroundings. People who own a gun sometimes takes advantage of this chance and do things that the best for others. The White House stated, more have been the victim of assaults, robberies, and other crimes involving a gun. Many of these crimes were committed by people who never should have been able to purchase a gun in the first (The White House ). Committing a crime and murdering is easy when you own a gun because it gives that person a sense of control. We humans, like to abuse things most of the time. If we have power over something, then we use it to the fullest. Sometimes having that power might not cause anyone a trouble but sometimes it might be used to put ourselves in trouble and danger. Having a gun means having that power to do anything you please. According to Illinois Council Handgun Violence, 2013, a total of 877 young Americans ages 19 and younger committed suicide with firearms, an increase of 2% from the 2012 total of 861 youth gun suicides. Unlike suicide attempts using other methods, suicide attempts with guns are nearly always fatal, meaning a temporarily depressed teenager will never get a second chance at life. Nearly two-thirds of all completed teenage suicides involve a (Illinois Council Headgun Violence). This is actually happening among us, especially college students. Due to so many reasons such as cyber bullying, the pressure of studies and exams, racism, not fitting in, and many other typical and disappointing reasons, students in universities commit suicide and owning a gun makes it worse as it can take lives of many. 4 Homayoun Kamali There is always a solution to the problem. In this case by reducing availability of guns and providing education on gun safety on college campuses we can make this world a better place to live in. By starting from college campuses we can continue on this path to reduce the amounts of guns owned by the citizens. One thing that college campuses should talk about more and educate more students is the topic of gun control in United States because guns truly affect the lives of so many people even if we do not see it everyday. But gun accidents are happening everyday, taking lives, and affecting so many others. Our plan is to stop the gun violence all over the United States, as the USF student, our team came up with the idea of protesting through diverse communities and with the big help of Greek association connections and donation through all the campuses and universities we can stop gun violence. A letter has been written by the University of South Florida councils to be sent to the congress of Tampa that will be viewed soon and with the help that we get, we can put an end to this nightmare. Since universities are playing a huge role in this country, the Greek Association of the University of South Florida is gathering all the students for the better of this country as we are all uniting toward stopping the gun violence. By connecting these communities for a safety of ourselves and others this can be possible.. In conclusion, power can be good or evil it depends on the situation. If power is abused then evil, and if it is used in the right way for a better cause, then it is considered as good. In most of the situations that I personally have encountered power is evil. The reason why the concept good or evil exists is because of us, humans. Therefore, we are in charge of what we do, and in a world so full of crimes and wrongdoings, do a little good. By reducing gun availability, we are doing good to so many people, saving the lives of so many people who are waiting and longing to be 5 Homayoun Kamali saved and those who need saving before anything such as students. By educating the students on this topic, they are being saved and kept safe. 6 Homayoun Kamali Works Cited Maclnnis, Laura. 17 April 2018 <http://www.reuters.com/article/us-world-firearms- idUSL2834893820070828>. Drexler, Madeline. Guns and Suicide . 30 April 2017 Grimes, David Robert. Guns offer protection whatever the National Rifle Association says . 25 March 2013. 30 April 2017 <https://www.theguardian.com/science/blog/2013/mar/25/guns-protection-national- rifle-association>. Illinois Council Headgun Violence. 30 April 2017 <http://www.ichv.org/about-the- illinois-council-against-handgun-violence/our-mission/>. The White House . FACT SHEET: New Executive Actions to Reduce Gun Violence and Make Our Communities Saf. <https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/the-press- office/2016/01/04/fact-sheet-new-executive-actions-reduce-gun-violence-and-make- our>.