Heiden 1 Connor Heiden Professor Campbell ENC 1102 March 31, 2017 The Fast-food Empire: McDonalds Fast food has become a very useful and ever-expanding industry. We are all in search of that cheap quick bite going to satisfy are hunger craving. One major fast food chain that has been around since and put a significant impact on food industry is McDonalds. has innovated and created a menu that is endless, affordable, and cheap. menu items range from a Big Mac special to an M&M McFlurry and targets a variety of consumers from all around the world. In a recent poll was voted by Business Insider as most popular fast food restaurant in and has progressively shown its favor by the public in recent years as well (Bhasin 1). is not alone though, the competition is long and extensive with other fast food chains that include Sonic, and their biggest rival Burger King. Although these food service retailers create some contest, none of these restaurants have had the success that has accomplished, profitability wise as well as by worldwide viewing. Business concluded, just no stopping the Golden 1). One of best tactics at gaining customers is through the use of advertising. Their current advertising slogan lovin is a branding campaign by Company uses its advertisements to display their products with the help of celebrities to attract consumers towards their stores to purchase their quick to-go meals. The two advertisements help display the rhetorical appeals of ethos, logos, pathos and kairos by including a rock hand shaped like a fry pocket and an Olympic athlete holding a Heiden 1 cheeseburger. First off, the first advertisement I have provided down below presents a right hand of what appears to be a rock band symbol similar to what you would see at a rock concert. makes the hand into the shape of a fry pocket to catch the attention of fry lovers. The pinky and index finger are both yellow which are both fully extended and are made out to be golden French fries. Ethos is presented with the giant yellow at the back palm of the hand to represent McDonalds branding. With regards to pathos, this advertisement places many keywords such as in bold letters in between the index finger and the pinky finger to stand out and create a positive vibe for the product. The colors yellow and red that are presented throughout the advertisement help dig into the head with the main colors. Additionally, the rock hand symbol reaches out to potential young and older rock and roll lovers that further intrigues them to the business. Logos is viewed when they place the giant M on the center palm of the hand with the apparent French fry hand to present that they are the leader of creating fries and dominate the rest of the fast food competitors. This additionally fuses the French fries into their advertisement to help persuade people. Kairos is presented by promoting how the fast food chain promotes Food, meaning great tasting, modern choices and real to create better dependability on healthier and delicious products Second, visualize the second advertisement I have displayed below of what seems to be an Olympic athlete holding the classic cheeseburger. The ad is trying to appeal to an audience that enjoys watching and participating in sports. is known for cheap fast food, not necessarily for healthy high energy food that athletes are looking for. Looking at the logos in the advertisement, the large golden arched at the bottom right as well as the website Heiden 1 link at the top right of the advertisement presents credibility to the reader. In regards to pathos, uses a variety of color schemes as well signifying images such as the giant cheeseburger which was placed to represent a gold medal. First off, the Olympic smile helps attract the audience by indicating that he is happy with the cheeseburger which in turn will attract athletes. Additionally, the cheeseburger almost seems to be exemplified with brightness to help show it off. The variety of colors including the famous red and yellow, also aid in creating a connecting to the audience. Also, the fact that this advertisement was used for the 2010 Vancouver Olympics not only helps with ethos (credibility), but also helps persuade the audience into potentially checking out or trying the product.. This ad was created to help generate more athletes to come into their store and create a more profitable business. hamburgers have been known to not be healthy for you which in turn negatively affects the audience by avoiding these products. According to chef the low quality of the meat, the ammonium hydroxide is harmful to for Human Chef Oliver famously coined this the pink slime and deemed it as an unhealthy alternative for a human diet which presents a negative perspective on the company for Human Through this you can see the fallacy of false error of fact is present here. Everything seem as it is and just because cheap and fast mean a healthy diet choice for you. With both ads will always have the same goal in mind which is to gain new customers and to help promote their business through their brand colors. In both advertisements the colors red and yellow are present throughout. Also, the yellow logo can be seen in both. They want you to remember their famous logo and brand colors. The two new crowds that are trying to attract were the young rock and roll crowd as well as the athletic and healthy crowd. Both ads also use photoshop to help enhance their ads which a lot of Heiden 1 companies do today. In the rock and roll ad the hands are not human skin colors but are red and yellow which realistic. With the second ad appears to brighten and make the cheeseburger larger to help give it more appeal and a more tasteful look. This seems like a beneficial tactic that helps sell their products to new customers/audiences. Both ads all stick to the strict black bold font when it comes to their letters only to change them to company colors ever so often. In Conclusion, as most of the ads we seem in TV can be very convincing sometimes they can be very deceiving. With being one of the biggest food chains in the world their advertisements can almost be monopolized and hypnotizing. According to Clever, corporations are the largest chain of fast food restaurants, serving nearly 47 million customers which is a very large portion of consumers. Advertisements such as these are a great way to help push their products regardless of some of the disadvantages. To begin, social media has taken reins of the new world. what makes everything run. It could be google, twitter, facebook or simply a basic computer ad; they all work great. advertisements are presenting images and statements that are trying to persuade you into coming into their store and purchasing the products even though they are not healthy alternative for your diet. Work Cited Bhasin, Alaina. RANKED: The Most Popular Fast Food Restaurants In  Business Insider. Business Insider, Inc, 12 July 2012. Web. 25 Jan. 2015. Heiden 1 <http://www.businessinsider.com/the-most-popular-fast-food-restaurants- in-america- 2012-7#1- mcdonalds-15>. Food Sustainability Choices ::  Food Sustainability Choices :: N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. Hamburger Chef Jamie Oliver Proves Burgers Unfit for Human  Political Blind Spot. 3 Aug. 2013. Web. 26 Jan. 2015. <http://politicalblindspot.com/hamburger- chef-jamie-oliver-proves-mcdonalds- burgers- unfit-for-human-consumption/>. 40 Clever Advertising Campaigns of  The Design Inspiration 40 Clever Advertising Campaigns of McDonalds Comments. Web. 26 Jan. 2015. <http://thedesigninspiration.com/articles/40-clever-advertising-campaigns-of- mcdonalds/>. Heiden 1 Heiden 1