Rose 1 Kathryn Rose ENC 1102 Harley Campbell 28 March 2017 Project 2 Final Draft Advocates for Youth (AFY) is an organization that advocates for young rights across America. They follow the core value of In summary, youth have the right to honest information, society has the responsibility to supply this information, and youth deserve respect and One of the issues Advocates for Youth is passionate about is comprehensive sex education within the public school system. This entails teaching youth how to use condoms, oral contraceptives, and other safe sex practices. One of the platforms AFY uses to spread their message is the social media website, Twitter. On Twitter this organization has posted numerous advertisements supporting comprehensive sex education. The first image selected utilizes ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos to call educators, parents, and students to understand the effectiveness of comprehensive sex education; the second image uses mainly logos as well as kairos to bring attention to problems surrounding the current sexual health information young people are receiving. AFY uses imagery and kairos to emphasize that comprehensive sex education is appropriate in a classroom setting. One of the most prominent features of this advert is the pencil like writing of the A+ adjacent to the contraceptive. This is meant to bring up connotations of school. The pencil like nature implies that the effective use of contraceptives should be taught in schools. AFY could also be attempting to use logos, implying that, if students are taught comprehensive sex education they will be more likely to succeed in school. This also appeals to Rose 2 pathos, mostly towards parents. Parents want the best for their children and if they are taught comprehensive sex education their children will do better in their classes. This calls parents, using kairos, to demand programs to teach about contraceptives in schools. This image also uses rhetorical appeals in the specific colors used for every word. The images, in red, blue, and grey are laid against a white background. These colors are all used on notebook paper and the image intends to mimic that. This further associates the image of with the classroom setting and education in general. This is an example of kairos, AFY is stating that the timing of youth learning about sex education must be in the classroom; it is appropriate, and more importantly, necessary for student success. Furthermore, specific words have the same colors to draw connections between ideas and appeal directly to students. For example, the of the is red and so is This associates comprehensive sex education with positive outcomes for youth. The color association is an appeal to pathos, aimed at the youth that may come across this image. It implies that if young people use contraceptives and get educated about sex they will live positive and successful lives. In much the same way, AFY appeals to ethos by using blue for of and their logo. By using the logo they are already establishing their credibility, but they do so even further by having millennials and sex education in blue as well. This color association aims to illustrate understanding of millennials and sex education. The first image also employs logos by using the statistic, of Millennials support Comprehensive Sex This appeal to logic proposes the question so many millennials support this type of teaching why they have access to It also uses a hasty generalization; if 88% of youth want this method of education then it is the best thing for them. Rose 3 Despite this statistic, across the United States few regions require comprehensive sexual health information. According to the Guttmatcher Institute, only twenty states require that contraceptive use be part of their curriculum (Content Requirements when HIV Education is Taught). First and foremost this ad highly utilizes logos. Most of the statistics report on information gathered from the School Health Profiles from 2014, as stated on the image as well. Of all the statistics on the ad the most important ones are of using condoms consistently and of which middle school students scored a 40%, while high school students scored a 70%; how well condoms work, 48% to 79%; and how to use a condom, 23% and 53%. The employment of these statistics demonstrates to the public that although condom use and effectiveness is incredibly important and shows 79% effectiveness in high school students, only 50 percent of students understand how to use them. These statistics intend to invoke feelings of outrage towards the current sex education standards mandated in public schools. As with the first image, AFY uses color once again to get across the need for comprehensive sex education in schools. The use of red for the brings up ideas of failure, implying that schools have failed at providing their students the sexual health information students deserve access to. This message is taken even further by stating at the bottom of the Here, AFY is using kairos to call parents, students, teachers, and policy makers alike to take action and improve the sexual health information youth are receiving. It should also be known that in a study conducted by Kristen E. Ito, an overwhelming 89% of parents in North Carolina support comprehensive sexual health education; AFY is appealing to that group and others like them (Ito et al 634). Rose 4 This image establishes credibility in two ways. The first, by donning the Advocates for Youth logo and below it; this is done as a stamp of approval for the image. Secondly, the image specifically mentions the source of the statistics: the CDC. By using this widely known government agency, it solidifies the validity of their message. By utilizing the and coupled with the emulation of a report card, this image appeals to the desire for success. In addition, this tactic tugs at the emotions of parents and teachers wanting the most out of education for their youth. Moreover, posing the question are schools doing at teaching about pulls in the interest of teachers, policymakers, and students. However, this question is also a form of framing bias. By asking this question, Advocates for Youth is setting up an opportunity for the answer to most certainly be well Although a logical fallacy, it serves the purpose of pulling the reader in and seeking an answer. Overall, both of these images use various rhetorical appeals to advocate for their cause: comprehensive sex education. Image one highly employs all of the visual rhetorical devices to advocate for desire for honest sexual health information in school. Image two, relies mostly on logos to argue that the current sexual education within the United States simply is not meeting the need of the youth population. These images both aim to call youth and adults alike to push for comprehensive sex education. Rose 5 Works Cited: Advocatesforyouth.org. Advocates for youth, n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Ito, Kristen et al. Opinion of Sexuality Education in a State with Mandated Abstinence Education: Does Policy Match Parental Yearbook of Psychiatry and Applied Mental Health, vol. 39, 2008, pp.634-631.Elsevier, doi:10.1016/s0084-3970(08)70639-x. and HIV Guttmacher Institute, 3 Jan. 2017, www.guttmacher.org/state- policy/explore/sex-and-hiv-education. Image 1: https://twitter.com/AdvocatesTweets/status/715639812632481793/photo/1 Image 2: https://twitter.com/AdvocatesTweets/status/699624290522497024/photo/1 Rose 6 Rose 7