Arterberry 1 Black and America Jordan Arterberry University of South Florida ENC 1102.041S17 Composition II 28 April 2017 Black and America America the great, America the free, America home of the brave. What about America: the ignorant, America: the hateful, America: home of slavery? No? how many Blacks/ African Americans view it in day and age. Being Black in America is significantly different in comparison to another race in this country. Not only is it more difficult to be considered a human, it can be life threatening to try to do so. It is considered an act of civil disobedience to try to obtain rights. America chooses to claim race blindness instead of searching for and eradicating the issues that are clearly there. Instead we are expected to just do better in this world, work a little harder, stop complaining, and go with the flow. All the while ignoring our history, culture, pain, and the overall underlying racism that this country possess. Even with all the evidence, quotes, acts of violence, shootings and statistics many people still believe that racism and prejudice does not exist. Without a doubt, America had the hope to be great again, but with the election of president Trump, that hope is slowly diminishing. What many people do not understand is that organizations such as Black Lives Matter are not worried about the man, but the message he sends. The election of Donald Trump, is received by the Black/ African American community as a message from America, that it does not care, or want to look at the issues that have only been getting worse as of recent. Issues such as the miseducation of American youth, an indifference to police brutality, and most importantly, the rise of white supremacists nicknamed the alt-right. Arterberry 2 This indifference can be identified as: color blindness, and it has done nothing to change the atmosphere of racism and prejudice in America. In fact, Nancy A. Heitzeg, Ph.D. claims in On the 50 th Anniversary of the Civil Rights Act of 1964: Persistent White Supremacy, Relentless Anti-Blackness, and the Limits of the Law that: in housing and education persists at levels beyond that noted in Brown v. Board of Education, racial wealth gaps grow, and racial disparities in criminal injustice proliferate at a pace that has led to the label New Jim In tragic irony, the Civil Rights requirement of race neutrality has perhaps ushered in an era of more insidious de facto discrimination that is now denied through Across America Blacks/ African Americans are marginalized and not expected to succeed. Instead, we must conform to a mold that completely reshapes us as a person. While the later process results in an individual making a little more money than average, it does nothing to change the attitude towards the Black/African American community. No matter how easy it may be to learn to switch into an character, an individual must still deal with the fact that society expects them to stay in the margin. An expectation that does nothing but hurt potential leaders and scholars. In a focused study on black college students: collegians have been found to report the least favorable evaluations of campus climates and endorse higher levels of race related stressors, such as discrimination, which is a known predictor of negative psychological according to Shannon McClain and associates in An Examination of the Impact of Racial and Ethnic Identity, Impostor Feelings, and Minority Status Stress on the Mental Health of Black College Students. Where African American/ Black students are a minority, such as in Arterberry 3 predominantly white universities (PWUs), they feel less support, more isolated, and more incompetent than their white counter parts, in comparison to students who attend a Historically Black College/Universities (HBCUs). This is because the stress of being a minority in causes mental illness in the form of a combination of Impostor Feelings (IP) and Double Consciousness (DC). These already highly driven students suffer from a feeling of incompetence due (IP) or an individual view him- or herself, resulting from self/ others, (p. 101) and Double Consciousness which is being constantly aware or reminded of blackness. very common that IP sufferers believe that nothing they do is enough. Resulting in anxiety, depression, and paranoia. IP sufferers cannot acknowledge that they have done well, or achieved something worth being content with, because they are constantly aware, and reminded, that they are black, and cannot possibly be as successful because of their race. This in combination with double consciousness, Black IP sufferers literally cannot acknowledge that they are of equal or better value in higher education as whites and other races. This very real mental illness coupled with institutional color-blindness, does nothing but hinder the potential of these college students. Potential that may change your life. The overall climate of affairs in America is unacceptable. With police brutality becoming the norm, and tensions growing higher, we simply cannot let things move on the way they have. There is a side to story that has yet to be exposed. This story is just as crucial to Americas history as any other. The most important thing that you can do as a citizen, is expose this transparent veil that has been cast on us. You have to question everything you know, step out of your comfort zone, and speak to others. We have to realize that ignoring our issues is not solving anything. Color blindness is only making things worse. This indifference that America has grown accustom to, is an injustice to its citizens, and a complete violation of what this Arterberry 4 country stands for. We have to wake up, and empathize with those who need our help to achieve the American Dream. Arterberry 5 Works cited Heitzeg, Nancy A.1. On the Occasion of the 50Th Anniversary of the Civil Rights Act of 1964: Persistent White Supremacy, Relentless Anti-Blackness, and the Limits of the  Hamline Journal of Public Law & Policy, vol. 36, no. 1, Jan. 2015, pp. 54-79. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=lft&AN= 103538237&site=eds-live. Kadi-Hanifi, Karima. Black at Higher  Universal Journal of Educational Research, vol.1, no.2, 2013, pp 83-92. Assessed 11 Sep. 2016. LEE, CYNTHIA1. Making Black and Brown Lives Matter: Incorporating Race into the Criminal Procedure  St. Louis University Law Journal, vol. 60, no. 3, Spring2016, pp. 481-496. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=lft&AN= 116281199&site=eds-live. McClain, S., Beasley, S. T., Jones, B., Awosogba, O., Jackson, S. and Cokley, K., Examination of the Impact of Racial and Ethnic Identity, Impostor Feelings, and Minority Status Stress on the Mental Health of Black College Journal of Multicultural Counseling and Development, vol. 44 no. 2, 2016, pp 101-117. http://www.jmcdonline.org/. Assessed 11 Sep. 2016