Floyd West Adam Carter ENC 1102 2 May, 2017 Smoking and How it Affects You Smoking in teens has been greatly reduced throughout the years but it is still a major problem in America today. The consumption of tobacco is still continuing to cause the loss of life every day in the form of lung cancer. Teenagers are becoming a bigger target for big tobacco companies as they try to come up with new flavors and tactics to market tobacco as a product that will bring good things to their consumer. College are trying to combat smoking by creating smoke free campuses for students but there is actually very little they can do to uphold their own rules when asking others to give up a right they have and perhaps an addiction they have that is hard to break. Tobacco companies know this, which is why they want their consumers young. If they are able to get teenagers addicted to their cigarettes then they have a guaranteed lifetime consumer who will do almost anything in order to take part in the vice. We as college students need to put an end to smoking around campus by making a pledge and bringing up the conversation to those who we know participate in the deadly activity. The rate at which smokers are dying from lung cancer caused by smoking each year are around 480,000. (American Lung Association). more is that around 353 people are dying each day from it. (TRUTH). No matter what source you decided to pull your information from regarding deaths caused by tobacco everyone can agree that the numbers are far too high. In an article posted in 2016 by the American Society of Clinical Oncology, it was estimated that more than 16,000 adults would die that year from brain cancer. (ASCO). Medical researchers have been trying to find a cure for naturally caused cancer for years when hundreds of thousands of people are dying each year from tobacco caused health problems that could be ended through educating others and ending big reign over others. Tobacco companies want nothing more than to profit and do not care who they harm in the process. Many teenagers believe that they can stop smoking whenever they want to but according to statistics, it is a much harder feat then college student think. In fact, 87% of current smokers started before the age of eighteen and more than 2,000 youth and young people become smokers every day. (TRUTH). Even though smoking might not affect every single teenager it most likely affects someone close to them. With around 36.5 million smokers in the United States it is probable that at least one friend or family member you know is a smoker. (CDC). While many may find discussing smoking around those involve themselves in it uncomfortable a discussion can last minutes whereas the death of a family member or friend lasts forever. When one was once too nervous to encourage someone to quit consuming tobacco they now feel guilty for not bringing it up and wish they had offered help to someone who maybe desperately wanted to stop but no one ever asked them if they wanted to. As far as teenage smokers go, many do not think about the dangers of smoking later on in their life or lean on the thought that it is their body and it only causes harm to themselves but this is far from the truth. As people grow older they develop relationships, settle down, get careers, and have children. All of these become soiled by tobacco; parents have to choose between spending time with their family and smoking, people have to decide whether or not to be late to work because they need to catch their morning fix of nicotine, or have to distance themselves from their older aged parents because their smoking is detrimental to their fading health. The best thing that someone can do in order to counter smoking and take effective action against big tobacco companies is to interact with those with addictions one on one in order to help others through relationships instead of guilt or pressure from large anti-smoking organizations. If we care about those close to us we need to take action and engage with them about their addiction instead of watching their health greatly decline throughout the years and then wishing we would have said something when it is far too late. The problem with big anti- smoking organizations and why they can sometimes be very ineffective is due to the lack of community, accountability, and humanity that come with their campaigns. The reason why Alcoholics Anonymous has lasted for so long and produced great results for a large amount of people is because they display all of these aspects in their program. They rely on human interaction rather than massive online shock campaigns to turn people from their vice. We need to make conversations with those who smoke and encourage them to quit for the benefit of their health. There are roughly 20.5 million college students in the United States, if every one of them (minus college students who do smoke) talked to someone who had an addiction to tobacco and encouraged them to quit through community and accountability, using empathy instead of guilt then tobacco companies would take a huge hit in business. (National Center for Education Statistics). Taking a couple minutes out of your day to take to someone about smoking is a much more accessible and easier option too as opposed to donating to an anti-smoking organization, campaigning against tobacco companies, or throwing a cigarettes away. As college students and the youths in our community it is our responsibility to take action and make sure that we and others whom we know are properly educated on the dangers and effects of smoking. There are many things that we can do in order to combat teen smoking but the biggest thing that we as individuals can do that big anti-tobacco campaigns cannot is talk to current smokers about their deadly addiction and try to educate them and give them tools that they can use to quit. Smoking is killing an alarming rate of people still in the year 2017, far beyond the years when we discovered that tobacco was dangerous. Technology is so advanced that scientists are able to produce robotic appendages for those with none and constantly talk about being on the verge of curing cancer but people are still smoking tobacco very well knowing how damaging it is to their health and tobacco companies are still in the business of slowly killing people and robbing them in exchange for cancer. We can, in a way, help get rid of and prevent many cases of cancer from just starting a simple conversation. In this day and age, it is our responsibility to end injustices and try our hardest to put companies out of business that sell cancer and a life time of pain wrapper in paper. Works Cited:  Truth. Truth Initiative, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Lung Association  American Lung Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. ASH Action on Smoking &  ASH. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults in the United  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 01 Dec. 2016. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Brain Tumor:  Cancer.Net. N.p., 21 Mar. 2017. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Fast Facts. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 May 2017.