Nguyen 1 Nhi Nguyen Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 April 30, 2017 Animal testing: A painful procedure Today, there are so many procedures used for animal testing that the common person does not have a proper understanding of the resulting effects. While some people believe that animal testing is essential for research, others consider these procedures as abusive. Animal testing not only wastes a lot of money, time, and animals, but also puts the safety of humans in danger. In addition, animal testing is a painful procedure, because animals are constantly suffering with the untreated pain after each laboratory technique. This outcome seriously affects the mental and physical health of nonhuman living animals, resulting in a severe loss of animals each year. Therefore, immediate actions should be taken to stop the cruelty and save these innocent animals from animal testing procedures. Animal testing overall is a misuse of time, animals, and money. It cannot be denied that many animal research requires years of studying, resulting in a dreadful loss of animals. According to Badyal and Desai from the article use in pharmacology education and research: The changing animals are used for painful procedures in education and training (1). This points out the fact that large amounts of animals are sacrificed unnecessarily. Additionally, animal testing procedures are expensive. According to Sharma et al from the article of Animals in Drug Research: An Approach Towards Fulfillment of animal testing is expensive, time consuming, and dangerous (1). While animal testing is considered dangerous and time consuming, governments are still spending billions of dollars from tax Nguyen 2 income. The money has been spent each year for research on animals; however, there has been many resulting failures. This interferes with many other social problems that needs special attention such as building shelters for homeless people, or protecting the environment. Therefore, everyone should be more aware and become engaged in preventing the threat and cruelty of animal testing. The results of animal testing procedures affect individuals and societies negatively. In fact, drugs developed from animal research may be extremely dangerous because of the significant difference between humans and anatomy and physiology. According to Akhtar from the article Flaws and Human Harms of Animal have been significantly harmed [due to misleading and efficacy profiles of new drugs that are based on experiments on animals (414). This article discusses that the safety of human beings is in danger if tremendous amounts of drugs are evaluated by performing animal testing procedures. Besides, the subjected animals can bite a person that is performing any experiment on the animal, resulting in injuries. According to Rothe et al from the article and Human Bite the risk of infections after a bite is ten to twenty percent greater (433). This significant percentage indicates that animal testing procedures are more dangerous for both human beings and animals. Although the primary goal of animal testing is to help study and find treatment to various diseases, its outcomes leads to negative effects to the subjected animals. According to Carbone from the article in Laboratory Animals: The Ethical and Regulatory valuable scientific experiment requires that animal pain be left (1). Since the pain of subjected animals is left untreated, it may be extremely difficult for animals to survive afterwards. The repeated painful procedures may also damage the mental health of the animal Nguyen 3 subjects by causing them stress each time these tests are performed. According to Balcome et al from the article routines cause animal significant changes in physiological parameters correlated with stress pressure in multiple species as a result of their experimentation (42). Which leads to the question of how people can be empowered to change perspectives and act now to stop cruel and dangerous animal testing procedures. Because the safety of human and nonhuman living animals are in danger as a result of animal testing, immediate actions need to be taken to stop this dangerous and painful procedure. People can help millions of animals right now by sharing videos and websites such as peta.org, pcrm.org, and crueltyfreeinternational.org, etc. to help educate others about this topic. Getting more people to be informed about animal testing issues can help fight against the violent happenings to animals in laboratory research. According to Festing and Wilkinson, once people have a complete view about animal testing, they feel that animal testing is unnecessary, and animal welfare should be weighed against the benefits of the test (526). This article suggests that it is possible to stop the cruelty and change the world now if everyone takes a simple step to spread the information worldwide. Donations can save millions of animals that suffer every day from animal testing procedures. In fact, animal right organizations can run campaigns and contribute to the development of animal testing alternatives if money is donated to support these groups. According to Sharma et al, alternatives such as computer simulations supply the that animal models will never be able to (1). Alternatives like computer simulation can be a breakthrough in fighting against diseases. Therefore, it becomes more feasible to protect human beings and animals from the dangers of painful animal testing procedures. Nguyen 4 Another potential way to end animal testing is to make a gift of your posthumous body. Posthumous bodies can be donated to humane charities such as Anatomy Gifts Registry (AGR) and International Institute for the Advancement of Medicine (IIAM) to help researchers find breakthrough treatments to serious diseases such as AIDS. According to Saha from the article Donation after Death: The Mental Setup of Educated it is very difficult to teach and study human bodies without dissecting cadavers (5). Hence, donating a posthumous body assists the study of humans and the discovery of treatments to various diseases such as and cancer, which brings a possible end to animal testing procedures. In conclusion, while animal testing may seem to be a potential procedure, its negative outcomes outweigh the advancements; therefore, immediate actions need to be taken to stop this procedure. In fact, animal testing techniques leaves the subjected animals with pain and stress each time a test is performed, resulting in a lower survival rate. Moreover, humans are directly harmed by animal testing due to the drugs developed based on these procedures. Their failures are represented by all of the possible side effects as a result of different anatomy and physiology between human beings and nonhuman living animals. Therefore, the society as a whole must be aware of this alarming operation. Immediate actions such as sharing informative videos and websites, donating money and posthumous bodies, and using alternative methods are possible ways to stop hazardous tests on animals. Nguyen 5 Works Cited Akhtar, Aysha. The Flaws and Human Harms of Animal  Cambridge Quarterly of Healthcare Ethics 24.04 (2015): 407-19. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Badyal, Dineshk, and Chetna Desai. Animal Use in Pharmacology Education and Research: The Changing  Indian Journal of Pharmacology 46.3 (2014): 257. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Balcombe, Jonathan P., Neal D. Barnade, and Chad Sandusky. Routines Cause Animal 43.6 (2004): 42-51. Web. 11 Feb. 2017 Carbone, Larry. Pain in Laboratory Animals: The Ethical and Regulatory  PLoS ONE 6.9 (2011): 1-6. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Festing, Simon, and Robin Wilkinson. The Ethics of Animal Research. Talking Point on the Use of Animals in Scientific  EMBO Reports 8.6 (2007): 526-30. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Rothe, Karin, Michael Tsokos, and Werner Handrick. Animal and Human Bite  Continuing Medical Education 112.25 (2015): 433-43. Web. 2017. Saha, Anubha. Body Donation after Death: The Mental Setup of Educated  Journal Of Clinical And Diagnostic Research 9.6 (2015): 5-9. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Sharma, Kk, T. Arora, V. Joshi, N. Rathor, Ak Mehta, Kd Mehta, and Pk Mediratta. Substitute of Animals in Drug Research: An Approach towards Fulfillment of  Indian Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences 73.1 (2011): 1. Web. 14 Apr. 2017.