Allen 1 Amanda Allen Mariama M. Changamire English Composition II 30 April 2017 Animal Testing on Body and Skin Care Products daily skin care routine probably consists of washing his or her hair with a fruity scented shampoo. Other routines may consist of a high-end moisturizer or lotion for younger and smoother looking skin. What most people fail to consider or do not think about are the animals tested for these body and skin care products. Innocent animals are constantly tortured and experimented on for body and skin care products when there are alternative solutions already available. By switching over to natural ingredient and alternative tested products could end animal testing for body and skin care products. With these alternative methods, there will be more accurate results when testing each product, money will not be wasted on unnecessary animal tests, and it will help an end to animal cruelty. When people purchase skin care products and apply them to their skin, most people expect that these products are safe to use. However, products that are animal tested are not necessarily more accurate than alternative methods. In fact, most animal tested products are not accurate at all. PETA notes that in a study tests and four-hour human skin patch tests for 65 substances found that 45 percent of classifications of chemical irritation potential based on animal tests were incorrect as outlined by M.K. Robinson et al. in Food Chemical Toxicology in According to the US National Library of Medicine National Institutes of Health, describes three methods to alternative testing which include reduction, refinement, and Allen 2 replacement. These are known as the three and the article states that provide a strategy for a rational and stepwise approach to minimizing animal use and suffering in experiments, without compromising the quality of the scientific work being and In addition, many alternative tests are required to undergo scientific research methods, such as the three to provide the most accurate results possible before human use. Another factor to consider as to why animal testing can be problematic is that different predictions of toxicity made using animals translate to the human (Burden, Natalie, Fiona Sewell, and Kathryn Chapman). Some alternative tests that have been proven to be more accurate than animal testing include: in vitro methods (primary cultures, finite lifespan cell lines, continuous cell lines, reconstructed 3D tissues), ii) ex vivo methods (isolated animal tissues and organs) and iii) in silico methods: computer simulations and mathematical models, etc. Depending on the objective of the study, correctly selected in vitro methods in combination with a deep knowledge of the tested compounds (obtained from databases or computer simulations/QSARs, analytical chemistry, etc.) may be more appropriate for certain areas of interest than their animal and Furthermore, these tests limit toxic waste produces and have high levels of standardization. Expanding on the usage of alternative tested products are more cost and time effective. According to the New England Anti-Vivisection Society (NEAVS) website: an alternative test used to measure the effectiveness of sunscreens, was reported to do in days what it takes animal studies months to do, and estimates that it can test five or six products for less than half the cost to study a single product in animals. Allen 3 The traditional testing of chemicals using animals can take up to five years per substance and cost millions of dollars, while non-animal alternatives can test hundreds of chemicals in a week for a fraction of the Correspondingly, having more alternative tests will save taxpayers money. In an image on website shows how much money is wasted with money for unnecessary animal testing. The National Institutes of Health (NIH) supports 40% of its annual research budget to animal experiments. Based on the 2014 budget, this accounts for more than $12 billion in Tax Season: Learn How More Than $12 Billion in Taxpayer Money Is Wasted Annually). Eliminating these animal tests can restore the budgets or go towards more reliable research. Ending testing for body and skin care products and transitioning to alternative products and methods is animal and environmental friendly. The three reducing, refining, and replacing, highlight the ethical motivations for alternative methods. In the article Chemical Safety: What Is Needed to Ensure the Widespread Application of Non-Animal it points out that tests can be associated with high levels of suffering (for example, in acute toxicity tests where death is the main Chemical Safety: What Is Needed to Ensure the Widespread Application of Non-Animal According to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) it states some cases, after considering available alternatives, companies may determine that animal testing is necessary to assure the safety of a product or ingredient. FDA supports and adheres to the provisions of applicable laws, regulations, and policies governing animal testing, including the Animal Welfare Testing and Although the FDA claims to regulate experiments that involve animal testing, policies such as the AWA species like Allen 4 rats, birds, and cold-blooded make up more than 99 percent of animals used in not covered by even the minimal protections of the Testing Not only do alternative tests and alternative body and skin care product protect animals, but they are also environmental friendly. By using less chemicals in animal testing can reduce the amount of waste produce. In 2007, a response to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the U.S. National Research Council (NRC) stated that in toxicogenomics, bioinformatics, systems biology, epigenetics, and computational toxicology could transform a system based on whole-animal testing to one founded primarily on in vitro methods that evaluate changes in biologic in Science/ Animals experience cruel and painful conditions when being tested for body and skin care products. Ending animal testing for body products and researching with alternative methods will create more accuracy for these products, and natural ingredient products create more benefits for consumers. Alternative tested products are more cost effective as well as animal and environmental friendly. Hopefully one day as society moves away from animal tested products for body and skin care, research will provide similar methods for medicines and other resources that require animal tests. For now, it is important that people purchase body and skin care products that already contain natural ingredients and are cruelty free in effort to end animal testing for these products. Word Count: 1072 Allen 5 Works Cited Animal Testing  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Burden, Natalie, Fiona Sewell, and Kathryn Chapman. Testing Chemical Safety: What Is Needed to Ensure the Widespread Application of Non-animal  PLOS Biology. Public Library of Science, n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition. Product Testing - Animal Testing &  U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page. Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Tax Season: Learn How More Than $12 Billion in Taxpayer Money Is Wasted  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Helena, and Silvia Alternative Methods in Toxicology: Pre-validated and Validated  Interdisciplinary Toxicology. Slovak Toxicology Society SETOX, Sept. 2011. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Skin  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Society, New England Anti-Vivisection. Animals in Science /  In Testing. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.