Mara 1 ,Axhens Mara Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Gun Control VS Gun Ownership With multiple shooting tragedies like that of San Bernardino just a week ago, gun violence has become a hot topic lately. There have been several cases of gun violence that had a great effect to the evaluation of the benefits that come from gun ownership. With such a right issued by the Second Amendment to all the citizens of United States, numerous tragedies have followed and yet no action has been taken regarding gun ownership rights. That is why organizations like Violence Policy Center are fighting with all their resources to put a stop on that situation. They believe that with improved gun control policies, countless other tragic cases caused by gun shooting will be prevented. Although being right to own a gun, some restrictions should apply before issuing somebody a gun, and us students can make that happen. The organization Change is running a petition that will be directed to the US Congress demanding immediate action to end gun violence and this is just one of the ways everyone can contribute to stop such tragedies from happening and change that situation. According to BBC, based on research conducted recently, there is a total of 300 million guns in the United States. Such number of guns is held by only a third of the population, but is enough for every person in this country to get one (bbc.com). And although the rate of crime caused by firearms has decreased over the years, yet nearly 12,000 gun homicides happen every year in US. That is close to 93 Americans killed with guns per day (everytownresearch.org). Mara 2 Everytown is an organization that aims to educate the public regarding the effects of guns in our society. On one of their recent studies, Everytown published results showing that United States have a 25 times higher homicide rate than any other developed country. Such statistics clearly represent the need for action to be taken regarding this case. With such a great number of guns already part of the society it is a madness to say that this should be solved by banning all the guns, therefore firearm incidents are and will always be present. However, there are other ways that could potentially affect the rate of homicides caused by firearms. That would be improving the gun control before issuing a gun to somebody. Nowadays, all you must do to get a gun is to go through a background check. Any other issue that might lead to misuse of that gun is not considered at all. Therefore, cases such as school shootings or suicides because of depression happen at such a high rate. Despite all the direct effects on the society that firearm related homicides have, there are other impacts as well, especially on the economy. When it comes to that point the debate gets even more heated. The reason for that is because stakeholders are mainly making profit through gun sales. Considering the opposing side growing fast, stakeholders are coming up with new products, improved in lethality and design in order to get the interest of the costumers and make profit. On the other side, stakeholders like VPC are working hard to put a stop on this. The reason for that is because such improvements on structure and lethality will logically lead to a higher number of homicides. In addition, all this homicides and other problems caused by firearms are also a burden for the economy of the country. An old research conducted by PhD. Philip J. Cook , dating back in 1999 shows that medical cost only would be $2.5 billion (Cook). Today, 18 years later, that value should be way much higher and Mara 3 there the other sections in the structure of the country that would really find such a fund helpful, prioritizing education. With all the shootings and the increased number of armed robberies lately, many people chose concealed carry as a way to feel safer. It is basically the right to carry a gun in public places. According to his article, James M. La Valle states that concealed carry has led to a lower crime rate in states where such a right is approved. This is supported by an examination on its effects lately, stating that there has been a 10% decrease in crime rate since such policy was approved. Anyway, it is not only the good guys who get advantage of this right. Currently, and what VPC is trying to change, to get a concealed carry permit you only need to go through a background check. With that being said, people with certain mental conditions, not being able to take the responsibility of owning a gun, can actually carry on in the public. Although, as PhD Jeffrey W. Swanson stated in his research, most mental illnesses provoke violent behavior in people, meaning they are not a threat, yet the rate of suicides from such people is really alarming (Swanson). That way, through implementing new rules and restrictions, many suicide cases can be prevented and many lives will be saved. Despite the alarming situation going on right now regarding gun violence, most of the people are not supportive of such ideas because of the fact that such right was issued to them by the Second Amendment, being it a factor of great power whose policies cannot be modified. Nevertheless, the changes that have happened since the time such a thing was written till now have changed a lot. With that being said there is more safety in the street now, with trained people ready to engage in situations where someone might get hurt. This and many other deep differences should let them know that we cannot take the for granted something that was written based on the reality of a century ago. Therefore, everyone should reflect over the benefits of the Mara 4 right to own a gun at the first place. You might think it is worth it, considering having a gun with you when you come back from work at night, feeling safe and capable of self-protection. Yet, the same right, leads to a burglar possess a gun when he decides to rob your house at night. The situation gets even more serious when you consider shootings in schools and other public areas. Anyway, since such a right is issued by the Second Amendment and there is not much to be done to change that, excessive gun control laws can would at least stop issuing guns to those people with a potential of committing a crime. That way gun homicides will be significantly reduced. Such a change can only come from the voices of the ones who care, from the community itself, considering pro-gun organizations and industries are doing their best to impact the media and politics. By signing a petition started by CHANGE.org (https://www.change.org/p/congress- demand-federally-mandated-gun-control) voice will be heard regarding this case and the Congress itself will be considering the request. It is our right to speak up for our lives and it is our responsibility to do so. Gun violence will always be an issue to the society and cannot realistically be defeated. It has already taken so many lives of people and cannot be treated as a thing we can just put a stop on or neglect. Still, that mean we give our contribute, indeed we should raise our voice and speak up for a better future and a safer tomorrow. Only then will we will be able to make a change. Mara 5 Works Cited 17, 2013 Published: June. Justice Policy Journal - Volume 10, Number 1 - Spring Justice Policy Journal - Volume 10, Number 1 - Spring 2013 Center on Juvenile and Criminal Justice. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Cook, PhD Philip J. The Medical Costs of Gunshot Injuries in the United  JAMA. American Medical Association, 04 Aug. 1999. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Everytown for Gun  Everytown for Gun Safety. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Gius, Mark. An Examination of the Effects of Concealed Weapons Laws and Assault Weapons Bans on State-level Murder  Applied Economics Letters 21.4 (2013): 265-67. Web. Guns in the US: The Statistics behind the  BBC News. BBC, 05 Jan. 2016. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Swanson, Jeffrey W., E. Elizabeth McGinty, Seena Fazel, and Vickie M. Mays. Mental Illness and Reduction of Gun Violence and Suicide: Bringing Epidemiologic Research to  Annals of Epidemiology. Elsevier, May 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. US Congress: We Demand Action to End Gun  Change.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.