Paranos 1 Lucas Paranos Jarad Fennell ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Animal Welfare in the Farming Industry Ever since humans have hunted, they have been eating meat. This trend has continued throughout all of recorded human history. However, relatively recent years, there has been a great push by a significant number of people to abstain from eating meat and, in the case of more extreme advocates, avoid consuming any food products produced by an animal altogether. This is done both for the reasons of health benefits and, more prominently, due to concern for welfare of the animals involved in the food industry. Most people, however, do not follow this way of thinking, due mostly to aversion to change of tradition, due to how long humans have been eating meat, and that many people enjoy it. Very few people fully commit themselves to a lifestyle in which they absolve themselves from consuming any animal products. However, many people do not realize that to support animal rights is not synonymous with abstaining from consuming animal products, and that there are other ways to support them. First and foremost, slaughterhouses and factory farming must be abolished, as they are a truly inhumane way to obtain animal products. A factory farm is defined as: large, industrial operation that raises large numbers of animals for which focus on profit and efficiency at the expense of animal (ASPCA, 2017). Factory farming is also known as intensive animal farming or industrial livestock production. Factory farming is the result of an over delivery of 450 chicks to a small farm on the Delmarva Peninsula in 1926. The prominence of factory farming has risen over the years because: two largest costs of industrial livestock production feed and manure Paranos 2 management have been artificially reduced by federal Factory Farm Nation How America Turned Its Livestock Farms into  2017) This has significantly lowered the operating costs of factory farms. Products from factory farming organizations often possess labels that state that the organizations uphold animal welfare standards, but the fact of the matter is that many of them use a loose definition of these standards or simply disregard them in order to produce greater output. Examples of the disregard of animal rights displayed by factory farm include: being overcrowded indoors in cages with poor air quality and unnatural light patterns, performing physical alterations on them; such as teeth-clipping or tail-docking, without anesthetic, neglect of unwell animals, and rough or abusive handling by workers. Also, meat produced through factory farming has been shown to contain less nutritional value than that produced through other sources. Slaughterhouses, also known as abattoirs, are places in which animals are killed so that they may be used as food for humans. They are usually the final stage in the factory farming process, in which the animals mistreated by the factory farming industry are killed or used to obtain animal products, such as when cows are repeatedly, forcibly impregnated in order to ensure the constant production of milk. Animals are also sometimes killed almost immediately after they are born, such is the case with the production with veal. However, despite the displayed wrongdoings of factory farming, the majority of society still consumes meat produced through its use. This is due to the fact that the current alternatives to the meat produced through factory farming are not as prevalent, due to the fact that factory farming is most efficient way of producing enough animal products to satisfy the demand of the public. However, if slaughterhouses and factory farming in general were abolished, it would Paranos 3 cause more humane methods of farming to become more common and accepted, such as free- range farming. To achieve the abolishment of factory farming, a majority of the meat-eating public would have to call for it. This would include protesting against factory farms and refusing to consume products produced through them. The main reservation the majority of the meat-eating public believes that the abolishment would lead to less overall meat, as its production would not be as efficient. While this may possibly be the case, it would also lead to a higher quality of meat. Paranos 4 Works Cited Slaughter  Animal Rights Action. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Apr. 2017. Farm Animal  ASPCA. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Apr. 2017. Factory Farm Nation How America Turned Its Livestock Farms into  N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Evolution of Factory  Factory Farming. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.