Cole 1 Rachel Cole Professor Campbell ENC 1102.089 17 February 2017 Project Two Standardized testing has become a way to separate students based off their testing abilities. Standardized testing began in 1845 when Horace Mann designed and administered the first standardized test (Maranto 1). Standardized testing began to grow more popular through the twentieth century. 1918 and 1932 the number of standardized tests available for school use grew from 100 to (Maranto 3). The National Educational Association (NEA), founded in 1857, believes that tests should be locally developed as opposed to nationwide testing. Nationwide testing encourages teachers to only teach the material on the test (McMahon). The NEA believes that, assessments provide better and faster feedback that helps drive real improvements in teaching and (Testing). Teachers can tell students are struggling with testing and they want to put an end to it. The two images below were produced by the NEA about the topic of standardized testing. The images and their rhetorical appeals produced by the NEA bring us to the goal to put an end to stressing students and teachers about high-stake standardized tests. When standardized testing first became popular, the goal was to differentiate students based on what they were good at testing on. While also deciding what subjects students know well and need help on. But now the NEA feels that standardized testing is negatively affecting students. One student said, have a right to public education, and we want it to just be tests all the (Brown 1). Students feel that testing has taken over the school system. Pathos Cole 2 is a rhetorical appeal designed to make the audience feel something. For example, the first image appeals to pathos because it seems that the teachers are protesting standardized tests, which can cause the audience to feel that standardized testing is bad. Also the facial expression of the main teacher holding the sign that says, us teach not looks to be very serious and angry. The NEA wants the audience to feel angry just as the teachers who are protesting in this image. Continually, the second image has pathos in it as well because all of the students have their heads down. Children should not be stressing about a test or anything at such a young age. According to Marian Wilde, Stanford School of Medicine indicates that the number of children, ages 7- 17, treated for depression more than doubled between 1995 and (1). Depression can lead to a lack of sleep, loss of energy, and sometimes death. This article talks about how parents start to notice their children stress as early as first grade. Parents think their children are stressing over the tests they have to pass in order to advance to the next grade. Florida, children as young as 8 years old face the prospect of being held back if they fail the (Wilde 1). This article is talking about how students have to pass the Florida Comprehensive Assessment Test (FCAT) in order to advance to the next grade. Failing a grade at eight years old can set a child up for a bad future. Continually, the second image can lead the audience to think: does testing mean more than a life? When the audience sees this image it makes them feel bad for the young child stress level is equivalent to a forty-year-old man with children. This image ties back to the fact that high-stakes standardized testing needs to be put to a halt. The information provided to the audience in the first image is that teachers are protesting tests. This image is credible because teachers are typically the ones administering the tests and they are the ones who are currently protesting the test. Students spend about seven hours a day for nine months with one teacher. A good teacher monitors his/her students so they can see if the Cole 3 student is having any difficulties and what the students can handle. Therefore, image two is telling the audience that those good teachers know the students are struggling with the tests. The teachers only want what is best for the students; therefore, teachers are protesting standardized tests because it is a huge negative impact on students. Ethos is an appeal to credibility or trust. The second image has ethos because it says in the bottom right hand corner of the image. The audience can trust this image is credible because the NEA, itself, produced it. Logos is the appeal to logic or reason. The first image has logos in it because the sign says, us teach not In other words, the sign is saying to let teachers do their job (which is to teach) instead of forcing them to test students. This image is very logically by simply stating that standardized testing needs to come to a halt. In the second image, the students are all looking down at the test and they look stressed. This image is meant to tell the audience that students hate testing. If this image were meant to encourage the audience that students enjoy testing, than the students would all be smiling instead of looking down. The second image appeals to logic because the NEA produced this image and they put their logo at the bottom of the image to show credibility. That means that logically the NEA is against standardized testing because the NEA created this picture. Kairos is found when the audience feels a sense of urgency or timeliness. The first image has kairos in the essence that teachers are protesting standardized testing. Since teachers are protesting, it means that parents and students have already protested standardized testing. growing number of parents are refusing to let their children take standardized tests this year, arguing that civil disobedience is the best way to change what they say is a destructive overemphasis on tests in the public school (Brown 1). Parents have tried to change the way their children are tested but they needed the teachers help. Now that teachers are Cole 4 protesting too, this means that something needs to be done now to address this issue. The second image has kairos because it says new era is which is talking about time and this makes the audience feel like something needs to be done now to prepare for the new era. Logical fallacies are logical errors or inconsistencies in an argument. In the first image it is simply stated, us teach not However, teachers are supposed to teach and then test them based off of what they have learned. A teacher administering a test to a student is inevitable. The sign should have said, need to limit In conclusion, standardized testing has been around since the nineteenth century and is constantly changing but its idea is out of date. Standardized testing was proposed back in 1845 because it gave teachers a curriculum to teach. Standardized testing became very popular and is now used for end of course exams, advanced placement tests, and college entry tests. The NEA feels standardized testing has become out of hand because teachers are not getting the opportunity to teach. Teachers are told to constantly give tests to the students, which can result in stress to both the teacher and student. In order to fix this problem, the NEA created images to show that teachers do not support standardized testing, in hopes that a change will occur in the classroom. Cole 5 Works Cited Brown, Emma. parents across the country are revolting against standardized The Washington Post. March 2015, accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Maranto, Julie. Effect of Standardized Testing on Historical Literacy and Educational Reform in the ERIC, 2015. Vol. 3, pp.1-8, accessed 20 Feb. 2017. McMahon, Issitt. Salem Press Encyclopedia, Jan. 2016, accessed 20 Feb. 2017. NEA. http://www.nea.org/home/59488.htm, 2015. Wilde, Marian. we stressing out our Great Schools, Dec. 2016, accessed 20 Feb. 2017. Picture1- http://neatoday.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/testingprotest-e1402938826328- 300x200.jpg Picture2- http://www.nea.org/assets/img/template/1301NEATcover.jpg Cole 6