Salem 1 Sulaiman Salem Mrs. Nancy Carr ENC 1101.004S17 9 April 2017 Case for the Renewable Resources always needed energy to go about our daily lives for heating food, light at night, etc., however over the course of the late 1800s we needed more of it. Along with the increasing global population, where in 1970 the global population doubled from its figures 50 years ago in 1920, summing the amount up to 4 billion. Here is where the non-renewables hit their stride beginning with oil and natural gas, the discoveries of the underground oil reserves across the globe that were at the time untapped sources of energy and cheap energy at that. Being that the extraction of these resources was a more mechanised process than that of coal extraction which required manual labourers to actually mine and collect the resources, this meant that the process of extraction of the new resources, oil and natural gas, can be done with a smaller workforce making it a much cheaper source of energy. Global Warming, which is basically when the average surface temperature rises due to the effect of greenhouse gases, such carbon dioxide and methane, which trap the heat that would otherwise escape the atmosphere. These greenhouse gases have greatly increased since the mass production of cheap energy, oil and natural gas. Data collected by the EPA (Environmental Protection Agency) show extreme spikes in carbon dioxide emissions especially Salem 2 which is a main bi-product to all the energy plants we have in use. Evidence that shows the effect of global warming are the rising sea levels, global temperature rise, glacier retreats, and ocean acidification amongst many others. Rising sea levels to begin with are a direct concern to the many countries of Southeast Asia since most of them are islands so this phenomenon may cause some parts of these countries to be submerged underwater in due time. Global temperature rise has already been causing draughts in several countries within central region of the African continent creating problems to livelihood within those countries. Glacier retreats are particularly shown when an aerial shot of a mountain peak is taken in which shows in recent years that these peaks are starting to show if you will, meaning that the ice sheets that used to cover these peaks is slowly melting off. Ocean acidification is giving marine life a real hit causing death to most of the coral reef ecozones that are close to country shores. With that said, human activity has been stated as the primary reason for the bigger crisis of global climate change with 97-98% of researchers of the field agreeing on that. Being that it takes millions of years for non-renewable resources, such as coal, natural gas, and oil, to be created, if we continue with the rate of extraction we are at it will end soon. The discovery of new oil reserves has seen a rapid decrease at the turn of the century and many scientists have estimated that we will be in a state of declining oil production in the years to come, estimating it happening 20-40 years from now. With that you may see a huge gap within countries economies that are reliant on the non-renewable industry being created. However, this domain of renewable energy has no known boundaries yet, therefore workforces will have be put into place to find out and explore this domain of renewable resources and will lead to many jobs being created. When results show positive signs and breakthroughs, which are bound to happen Salem 3 in such uncharted fields, they will boost the economies of countries across the world hopefully returning what the countries have put in and invested into the domain. Counter-arguments have been made, as they do to massive topics like this one and the two prominent arguments I shall elaborate on. The first argument is that of the warming cycle, to the opposition just the mere fact that it has been historically proven that the earth has had cycles of warming up and cooling back down again discredits the seriousness of our claim that global warming is happening because of human activity. The second, is the one in which they said that if countries were to go through with this plan of mitigating towards the renewables and switching the non-renewable energy out for them that process of mitigation would be very expensive to go through considering how deep and already immersed in the non-renewable energy industry countries are in with the non-renewable resources and some governments might not be able to afford it. To conclude I would just like to emphasize the thought that we must work towards building the knowledge or at least acknowledgement, on the matter within the political field so that governments may realise its importance because without the government no substantial movement shall be made to mitigate away from non-renewable resources and then all be in trouble. Salem 4