Sanders 1 Zachary Sanders Harley Campbell ENC 1102 097 February 28 2017 How the national rifle association gathers supporters With all the constant commercials and advertisements, almost everyone in the United States knows what the second amendment is, the right to bear arms. However, Gun control is very controversial today with shootings nearly every time you turn on the news. When the second amendment was written, it was a much simpler time and loading a gun could take upwards of five minutes just to get one bullet to fire. Contrary to modern machine guns which can easily fire more than nine rounds every second (BMG.) This causes huge amounts of controversy over how the politicians and law makers should be interpreted the constitution and what it determines as a firearm being needed for self-defense. Lots of Americans believe that the second amendment is irrelevant today, and firearms should be banned completely, as they do more harm than good, especially since they are exchanged so easily. Even with all this commotion, the National Rifle Association manages to continue to persuade citizens to support them and convinces them that allowing everyone to own and carry firearms is better for society (NRA: Freedoms Safest Place). The NRA was started in 1871 by col. William c. church, and gen. George Wingate. Their primary goal was to and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific basis (Church). nearly a century National Rifle Association was among foremost pro-gun control organizations. It was not until 1977 that the National Rifle Association Americans know today came forth, after people began associating gun ownership with the freedom that the founding fathers fought for. Today, the NRA is still Americas largest Sanders 2 nationwide pro-gun agency consisting of over five million members (About Us). Over the past hundred and fifty years, the NRA has devoted all of its efforts to ensuring that every American is given the rights guaranteed to them in the second amendment. In order to continue to gain members and support, they use propaganda like the two images to persuade people that owning a personal firearm is better for all Americans. The NRA uses ethos, Logos, Pathos, and Kairos to convince people that it is their duty to support right to owning firearms for personal protection, and that it is up to them to keep the second amendment around. According to an article by Blake Elli and Melanie Hicken of cable news network, the National Rifle Association gets most of its power from who have given almost eighty-five million dollars to the NRAs political action committee in the past ten years. That is who both images target, everyday Americans. The National Rifle Association does not want to set a bad image by paying politicians who normally be on their side, so they convince common people who would be the ones who elect senators and government officials to office to make important decisions about topics like gun control. Ellis and Hicken also said that according to one of the largest donors to the NRA, he donates because it is much because he believes having the average citizen armed, a powerful deterrent to would be abusers (criminals, police, politicians, maybe even foreign troops in some distant (Ellis). The NRA uses this logic to convince people that they are right, and that people need to support them, to make their lives better. The first image shows an American soldier with a rifle, standing in front of the American flag. Around the picture is the simple quote the second The American flag, along with the soldier, appeals to pathos, bringing out the patriotic American in everyone. The image is just a random soldier, but the honorary soldier still appeals to ethics. When people Sanders 3 see it, they think, soldiers support owning guns. I should own one The soldier also appeals to pathos, making you believe that owning a gun will make you look tough. The quote, the second also urges people to act now. Even though the words do not appear in the image, Kairos can still be associated with it because this picture would be used around election times to convince people to vote for politicians that want to keep the second amendment intact. The second picture shows a magazine ad published by the NRA. The first thing the reader sees is, First right on top, in big bold letters. This simple quote has deep meaning. The pathos make the viewer feel that the second amendment is one of the things the founding fathers fought for. Along the left side, it says, our victories. All our rights. All our This quote pushes the idea that more than just the second amendment is up in jeopardy; all the freedoms that represent the United States are in jeopardy, and is an example of ethos. The American flag in the center of the add represents both ethos and pathos by making people feel patriotic (pathos), and representing the United States (ethos). The dark background with mountains is another example of pathos in the picture. The flag, being a symbol of the United States also contributes to ethos. The catch phrase and is on the line in persuade people to or in other words, do something to help protect the second amendment in the upcoming election. By saying that is on the the ad is much more effective than if it were to just say something like in So why do people still support the second amendment, specifically assault rifles, with all the mass shootings happening pretty much every day all across the country? It is because organizations like the National Rifle Association use images like these with very effective Sanders 4 rhetorical appeals such as ethos logos pathos and Kairos to convince people that their actions are crucial to not just keeping their property, but keeping everyone safe in a nation. Works Cited Di Giulian, Tony.  USA /90 (12.7 mm) M2 Browning MG - NavWeaps. N.p., 06 September 2007 n.d. Web. Accessed 12 Mar. 2017. Elli, Blake. Hicken, Melanie. Why I give 10% of my income to the  CNNMoney. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. http://money.cnn.com/2015/10/15/news/nra-biggest-donor/index.html Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Harhager, Ed. North Lawrence Fish and Game - NRA Bunker by Ed  North Lawrence Fish and Game. N.p., n.d. Web. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Lach, Eric. Check Out the Last 16 Covers of The News N.p., 02 Apr. 2013. Web http://talkingpointsmemo.com/muckraker/check-out-the-last-16-covers-of- the-nra-s-pure-news-magazine accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Safest Place  Safest Place Home. N.p., n.d. Web. https://www.nraspeaksforme.com/our-campaign/never-again/ Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Sanders 5 Sanders 6