Watkis 1 Phillip Watkis Eng. Comp Emil Smith 9 April 2017 Danger in Rugby Over the years sports analysts and regular sport fans themselves have had debates and arguments on whether American Football is more intense than Rugby and we have come to see that it is hard to point out the differences and tell which one out of the two is really more intense. Both sports on a whole are very physical and extremely fierce but players continue to join the league because of their passion and no matter what facts or stats you put in front of them they are still going to be dedicated to the sport no matter what. Any serious hit or injury in either of these sports can cause a player their entire career or even their lives. Playing a sport like American Football or Rugby as a professional it would say that it is best if you have a backup plan just in case you are forced to retire early due to an injury. Based on the facts that researchers published in many different articles over the past decade it is fair to say that that rugby is way more dangerous than American football. Rugby is way more dangerous than American football because there are way more body injuries in Rugby than there is in American football and not only the type injuries but also how frequent these injuries occur. According to the article, of Injuries in American Collegiate Football and Club published by Nienke W. Willengburg the injury rate for rugby is 15.9/1000 compared to American football which is 4.9/1000 (Willenburg 2016). Not only that but also when it comes on to injury like sprains, fractures and contusions on body parts Watkis 2 like the shoulder, hand, wrist and lower body parts in Rugby is 4 times as high compared to the results in American football, also most of these injuries happened in Rugby because of direct contact (Willengburg 2016). These results not only show that Rugby is more dangerous as a sport overall but it also shows that the little injuries go up in numbers because the players do not wear protection during the game, as compared to American Football where the players where all sorts of pads to protect them from getting injured. With this being said, Rugby is more of a traditional sport compared to American Football where the protection the players wear has evolved over time to keep the players safe, and because of this tradition, it is causing the injury numbers in rugby to consistently increase after every season. Not only that but in Rugby, there are more injuries at the end of every game than there is in American Football (Willengburg 2016). In the article, Events in Rugby Union and Their Propensity to Cause published by Colin W. Fuller showed that 70 percent of the tackles in rugby results in an injury instead of a clean tackle and also the risk of tackles in scrums resulting in injury is 60 percent (restarting a play after a minor infringement). With these results, it shows that American Football could be dangerous as well but not as dangerous as Rugby. Rugby is not only dangerous but can be life threatening as well because of the spinal injuries which have occurred. As discussed in the article, Medical Management of Suspected Acute Spinal Cord Injuries in Rugby that was published by Robert N. Dunn explained that spinal injury in rugby does not occur that often but remains an emotionally charged issue. There have been 10.9 spinal injuries per 1000 game in rugby compared to American Football there is barely any spinal injuries a season (Dunn 2009). Spinal injury is one of those injuries that can seldom be avoided in Rugby in contrast to American football because there are far more rules and regulations in the sport that prevent it from happening. An example Watkis 3 of how spinal injury can be very dangerous is presented in an article, Case of an 18-Year-Old Male Rugby Union Forward with a C5/C6 Central Disc published by authors in the British Medical association. The article explained that an 18-year-old that collapsed during a Rugby scrum his x-ray results showed that it was a listhesis which is a forward translation of his C5 and C6 vertebrae which caused his career to end at the age of 18. This information is not only to show that rugby is more dangerous football but it also proves rugby players get injured at a younger age than players in the NFL, because a player in the NFL career start until they are in their early twenties. When it comes to concussion, American football is far more dangerous than Rugby. This is a proven fact because in the article, Characteristics of Concussions in National Football League Games, 2010-2011 to by Michael D Clark he was able to complete a research which showed that during the last 5 years in American Football a total of 1,324 games were played and there was a total concussion rate of 0.658 per game. This might not seem like it is a lot but when you compare it to concussions results in the article, and Head Injuries in English Community Rugby Union Match it showed that the concussions result is 0.33 per 1000 games. The first article about concussion in American Football pointed out that concussion in football occurs through a diverse variety of mechanism (Clark 2014) as to Rugby in the second article a lot of head injuries are reported but a concussion is not the most to occur. With all this being said it possible to say that one of the main reason that American Football is less than Rugby is with every aspect beyond a concussion. Whether you look at the fact that rugby averages 10 more injuries per thousand players a year or you converse with both a rugby player and a football player: it is undeniable that the sport with the same amount if not more contact with not even a fraction of the padding and Watkis 4 protection is more dangerous. As American football science progresses with new pads and rules & regulations each year, along with the injury-prevention training football players get, rugby is staying more traditional and not taking the necessary steps to ensure that its athletes are safe. With all the data that was shared, it should be apparent to you that football is far less dangerous than rugby. (Word Count 1088) Watkis 5 Work cited Willigenburg, Nienke W., et al. Comparison of Injuries in American Collegiate Football and Club Rugby: A Prospective Cohort  The American Journal of Sports Medicine, no. 3, 2016, p. 753. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db= edsgao&AN=edsgcl.446283191&site=eds-live. Clark, Michael D., et al. Descriptive Characteristics of Concussions in National Football League Games, 2010-2011 to  American Journal of Sports Medicine, vol. 45, no. 4, 15 Mar. 2017, p. 929. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=edb&AN=121966547&site=eds-live Roberts, Simon P.1, et al. Concussions and Head Injuries in English Community Rugby Union Match  American Journal of Sports Medicine, vol. 45, no. 2, Feb. 2017, pp. 480- 487. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1177/0363546516668296. Dunn, Robert N. Boksmart: Medical Management of Suspected Serious Acute Spinal Cord EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct =tru&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.210521297&site=eds-live British Medical, Association.  1988. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=edshtl&AN=uc1.l0098923683&site=eds-live. Watkis 6 Fuller, Colin W., et al. Contact Events in Rugby Union and Their Propensity to Cause  British Journal of Sports Medicine, no. 12, 2007, p. 862. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.172621385&site=eds-live.