Fennell 1 Anna Marie Fennell Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 30 April 2017 The Power of Less When one first hears of one may think of a distant lifestyle. One may say that they cannot live like that because of work, or school, or family. But, minimalism is not living like an ascetic monk in a temple far away from society and it is not living on the streets with merely the clothes on your back; minimalism is simply an ideology. If one feels like minimalism is not applicable to them, perhaps it is. Most of us consume media, whether it be through social media, television, or simply commuting through the city. There are advertisements that persuade us to purchase things and watch the latest blockbuster, which distracts us from our personal goals. It is important to reflect on how all this background stimuli can affect us, and most importantly, if it manipulates us without us even realizing. Minimalism, as a practice, counterbalances consumerism so one can find harmony within society and within the realm of means. Minimalism can cut through the noise and allow one to be mindful about their consumption habits, to think twice before indulging or purchasing. The Journal of Happiness Studies published Art of in which a literature review supports having a balanced relationship with money: to have a healthy, moderate attachment, neither too tight nor too loose with money and to have lower materialistic goals. and possessions hold strong attractions, but being driven to acquire them in order to enhance social standing is associated with lowered (Tatzel, 405). Always chasing a higher income and various Fennell 2 possessions is associated with discontent, but minimalism grants freedom from that constant pursuit of newer, shinier possessions; it grants access to a world of productivity. Another piece of evidence revealing the negative aspects of consumerism was published in the Journal of Consumer Affairs. There are multiple correlational studies that show that the more materialistic one is, the lower their satisfaction with life; and the more one is consumed with the idea that possessions will lead to happiness, the less capable they are to make wise choices as a consumer (Lee, 21). There are many cases for the harm materialistic fixations can have on individuals, and conversely, minimalism could counteract the ill effects of this obsessive consumerism. Minimalism, at its core, has been present throughout time and culture. It is a practical way of thinking, but it is rooted in profound philosophy. The idea of cutting out excess and limiting self to the essentials is at the heart of minimalism. Comparatively, the philosophy of asceticism is defined as a lifestyle in which one abstains from worldly pleasures. However, minimalism is not self-denial or self-mutilation by any means; ascetics believed that through their practice they became enlightened or closer to god. In a sense, minimalism comes out of this practice, which is found throughout many religions, such as Buddhism and Christianity. The Dalai Lama, the head monk of Tibetan Buddhism, has said, comforts cannot subdue mental suffering, and if we look closely, we can see that those who have many possessions are not necessarily happy. In fact, being wealthy often brings even more (Dalai Lama). The wisdom from many years of practice illuminates that the constant pursuit of possessions does not always lead to happiness. Contemporary advocates for minimalism are present in our society. Our modernization of asceticism has translated self-denial to meaningful consumption, and spiritual gains to self- realization. Today, there are those who continue to refine the definition of minimalism in their Fennell 3 blogs and media works and explain how it can benefit the typical individual. The Minimalists, Joshua Fields Millburn and Ryan Nicodemus, have a website along with podcasts and a documentary explaining the contrast between the typical American experience and a life with minimalism. Joshua Becker, one of many bloggers, has had a similar experience in realizing that with the subtraction of meaningless stuff, comes more money, time, and opportunity for growth. He explains, our world continues to grow in complexity, there is far greater personal demand for many of the benefits that minimalism offers. Minimalism offers a life with less stress, less distraction, more freedom, and more time. All things that people today are desperately searching for more than (Becker). Minimalism cleanses mind and spirit and there is a rich history supporting it. In the United States of America, minimalism can affect the economy, environment, and personal enlightenment, right now. Minimalism is inherently connected to the economy because it counteracts what we have all been conditioned to do: consume. To clarify, minimalism is not anti-consumerism; if we all decided to stop buying things, the economy would suffer. Minimalism does not preach to never buy again; it is an ideology that can aid in refining how and when you buy. We buy a lot of stuff that we do not need or we get peer pressured into buying things we do not find meaningful. With a minimalist mindset, one can assess various situations and ask themselves, I really need this? Do I actually want this? Will I use this and will it add value to my and in this, save money and time in the long run. In this practice alone, it will reduce waste overall. We will not buy things that are merely trendy, just to be thrown out in a few months when the trends inevitably turn around again. When one realizes how much they use, they gain a more profound awareness of their global impact, then they aim to reduce, reuse, and recycle, which is great for the environment. It is not a drastic lifestyle change, it can be a Fennell 4 multitude of things depending on an circumstance. It can be as simple as appreciating the clothes on your back. Minimalism is an accessible device for everyone. is a tool we use to get rid of the excess stuff in our lives to make room for the essentials. Minimalism allows us to focus on important in relationships, passion, growth, and we can find happiness, fulfillment, and (Millburn & Nicodemus). Because minimalism is a philosophy, it is not a competition or a set of harsh rules; it is simply an idea to meditate on, a tool to help navigate life. Lastly, there can be a spiritual aspect to minimalism. At the core of minimalism, there is self-reflection. It takes bravery to analyze and look at oneself honestly and with clear eyes. This practice of self- reflection can transfer to all aspects of your life and make you a more actualized individual overall, regardless of your religion. Among all these things. To reiterate, minimalism leads to freedom in many facets. Finally, one may be thinking, what could I do? What do I start Minimalism can be as simple as way of thinking or one can make a radical change to your lifestyle. As with anything, just start to think about it and experiment and see if it resonates with you. There are numerous blogs and YouTube channels, like Jenny Mustard, Refinery29, and The Minimalists, that discuss what it means to be a minimalist and what they do that represents minimalism to them; it is an individualistic experience. These bloggers are everyday folks who were proactive enough to share their story; minimalism is not any less accessible to you. To become a more mindful consumer, one can take baby steps: before buying anything, reflect on if it will really be appreciated or not. waste time and money on things that weigh you down. One can go through a small area of you space, like a backpack or closet, look at each item and think if it is really used and appreciated. If it just takes up space, donate it. Elana Miller is a Fennell 5 psychiatrist who blogs about eastern practices and holistic practices in her blog, Zen Psychiatrist. She recommends decluttering and going through areas like closets and cabinets in her top ten list, Rid of Your Stuff: Why Fewer Possessions = More (Miller). People re-organize their desks and living spaces for the purpose of feeling refreshed and together again; the same idea. You can start with manageable changes, like budgeting, or keeping track of how much you spend on various things. For example, once you start tracking your spending habits, you may decide that you want to spend as much on clothes, electronics, etc. Similar to managing a diet, you can count your calories and refine your diet by adjusting your intake of various nutrients. Minimalism may seem like a daunting, unfeasible lifestyle, but it is as simple as thinking twice. Whatever relationship is with their possessions and spending habits, one can refine their behavior by reflecting on what one consumes, and in turn, be a more balanced and peaceful individual. It is beneficial to everyone and our environment; everyone can learn from each other and grow as a community when we live intentionally and with mindful minimalism. Fennell 6 Works Cited Becker, Joshua. 10 Reasons Why Minimalism Is  Becoming Minimalist. 25 July 2014. http://www.becomingminimalist.com/10-reasons-why-minimalism-is-growing-a-k- a-10-reasons-you-should-adopt-the-lifestyle. Accessed 12 April 2017. Dalai  BrainyQuote.com. Xplore Inc, 2017. 24 April 2017. https://www.brainyquote.com/quotes/quotes/d/dalailama621051.html Lee, Michael S. W. and Christie Seo Youn Ahn. Anti-Consumption, Materialism, and Consumer  Journal of Consumer Affairs, vol. 50, no. 1, 2016, pp. 18-47, doi:10.1111/joca.12089. Accessed 12 April 2017. Millburn, Joshua Fields; Nicodmeus, Ryan. Minimalism  The Minimalists. http://www.theminimalists.com/faqs. Accessed 15 April 2017. Miller, Elana. Get Rid of Your Stuff: Why Fewer Possessions = More Freedom, and 10 Tips for How to Get  Zen Psychiatry. 02 Nov. 2010. http://zenpsychiatry.com/get-rid-of- your-stuff. Accessed 12 April 2017. Tatzel, Miriam. The Art of Buying: Coming to Terms with Money and  Journal of Happiness Studies, vol. 4, no. 4, 2003, pp. 405-43, doi:10.1023/B:JOHS.0000005770.92248.77. Accessed 12 February 2017.