Martes 1 Emmanuel Fernando Martes Professor Adam Carter ENC.1102.034 May 1 st , 2017 Take action and stop incenting the use of C.A.F.O.S Human ideology is based upon what each of us believes in and supports, making life a subjective idea. This bias in knowledge, defines what we consider as either right or wrong; and more over what actions we take into certain arguments, including the ethics of farming. Actions that have the ability, to change our beliefs and the abstract reality; once we are able to understand an idea and then feel engaged or personal attached with it. This type of response should be influential in arguments, such as: the ethics and morality behind the use of Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation (C.A.F.O.S), which has been controversial in the farming industry, for being unreasonable with the animals and unhealthy for the ecosystem and consumers. Furthermore, can be considered an unethical farming method, which misinterprets animals and life. In order to solve the negative impact of and animal abuse, it is required that the readers sign a communal petition sent to the protection in order to abolish this farms on the Hillsborough County and with this promote natural, healthy and moral farming methods. farms could be considered as the innovative farming method in nowadays society. effectively and productively use, has made it the main source of meat production on our present economy, regardless the unethical treatment of animals. importance is clear, as it Martes 2 has been determined how these farms occupy 70% of the agricultural land, which is equivalent to the slaughter of 50 billion animals per year, defining a future trend on how the production of meat would be able to double in the upcoming 40 years (Martin, 2010). usefulness is based on how thousands of animals are confined on a reduced closed space, treated with antibiotics, pesticides and medicine to keep animals growing constantly. It is just a growing that has influenced, the United States until the point to have currently thousand (N.A, 2017) regardless the negative impact it has on our body, the ecosystem and animals. Furthermore, due to the amount of animal farms and how are confined, the constant pollution of the environment is evident because of the production of manure, nitrogen and gases produced annually. Statistics have shown that contributed in a great extent to pollution, as they produce million tons of million pounds of and than 600 gases that direct to the ozone (N.A, 2012). The production of pollutants is also evident, starting by the contamination of water sources due to the amount of feces produced, affecting the availability of this resource because of the creation of Moreover, the production of Ammonia, Hydrogen Sulfide and Methane of this concentrated animal operations, are responsible for the 7% of the United States production of green house gases (Hribar, 2010), resulting in one of the major pollutants of our ozone layer and furthermore one of the causes of climate change. Lastly, it is evident the unethical use of this agricultural method on how it damages the environment and misinterprets animals life because of the treatment they receive. The connection these farms have with our daily life is significant; yet people tend to misinterpret the negative effect this agricultural method has on our health. The use of antibiotics and pesticides develop bacteria and viruses on the meat production, which would later affect the Martes 3 people at the moment of consumption. John Hopkins University has proved, how humans are affected by viruses found on the meat, like: E-Coli, Salmonella, protozoa, worms and listeria, which affect and put humans life in danger; showing a direct relationship, on how we are affected directly by this agriculture method. Furthermore, the impact it has on humans is significant, knowing that CAFO farms (Specially the ones in Hillsborough county) produce odors coming from 170 different chemicals (Sulfur and ammonia for example) that have been demonstrated to develop illness such as: respiratory diseases, nausea, diarrhea, chronic bronchitis, dust toxic syndrome and insomnia. Furthermore, the fact that animals are being fed with soy and corn, affects the dietary factors in their meat; producing with this more cholesterol and saturated fat, which is one of the most crucial factors in causing disorders in humans, such as: Obesity and high blood pressure. (Mercola, 1997). Finally, the direct impact this farming has on people lives is significant, on how groundwater and surface water resources are contaminated by the amount of feces and manure produced in these farms. The 2000 national water inventory has concluded the importance of in affecting water resources around the areas surrounding these farms, making water unavailable for consumption because of the amount of nitrates it contains. Being this a chemical that can lead to the blue baby syndrome and even death (Spellman & Whiting, 2007). Certainly, the impact of these farms on life is significant, which is determined on how: it affects consumable water resources, affects the air quality and affects the dietary factors in the meat production. . These impacts are affecting USF alumni directly, affecting our lives and health. The community provides students these processed foods, throughout the different dinning halls and restaurants that this college has to offer. Juniper Poplar, Champs and Fresh Foods companies are Martes 4 examples, of places in which meats from C.A.F.O.S farms are the main source of food and energy to the students; by providing pork, beef and chicken that has all the negative healthy effects of this animals. Furthermore, the reason that the concept is popular in the college world is probably because of how the cholesterol, saturated fats and diseases of this meat products, are leading USF students to overcome disorders such as: obesity and overweight problems. Furthermore, it affects water resources on campus because the farms located in the Hillsborough Country, are contaminating this usable resource we use daily. This can be determined by the odors produced in the Marshall Student Center and Castor beach in the semester, being this cause of the amount of manure that is incorporated in the water resources we use, and all of this because of Understanding and feeling identified with the issue is important for each of us to take action against farms with this start promoting organic farming methods, which would certainly improve our day-to-day life. This can be done, by signing a community petition directed to the Hillsborough County local government in order to ban the farms located in this area and that are affecting the health of thousand of residents, college students, government officials and animals. In this way, by signing a petition addressed to the protection of the county, would us address this issue by reducing or even banning this type of farming, that is going against animal rights and our health. This would help the development of organic farming, which provides a healthier alternative to animals by allowing them a safe environment free of pesticides and which would lead to less diseases/disorders on USF students that eat daily in dinning halls, as well as less contamination of the water resources that are essential for our living environment on the dorms and nearby Martes 5 apartments. On the other hand, a more direct impact the readers can have on is by directly consuming organic products that come directly from natural farming methods and that are certified by Union which certify the healthy properties of the food provided and the ethics of how animals are being treated. Finally, it is clear how we can contribute to the banning of by either; signing a petition, which would avoid the USF community and the entire county to be affected by the negative dietary properties of this meats and how we can stop with the contamination of the water resources we use. And how the USF community can contribute to this ban by just stopping with the consumption of this type of products and start promoting natural products. To conclude, can be considered an unethical farming method, which misinterprets animals and life. In order to solve the negative impact of and animal abuse, it is required that the readers sign a communal petition sent to the protection in order to abolish this farms on the Hillsborough County and with this promote natural, healthy and moral farming methods. Furthermore, it is clear the influence of on the USF society and how we are all affected by this type of farming, due to the negative health effects it has on each of us. Convincingly, to make USF and the entire nation better, it is necessary for us to take action in this problem and reduce the impact food has on: Our health, the environment and lives. Words: 1463 Martes 6 Works Cited CAFO - The Tragedy of Industrial Animal  CAFO - The Tragedy of Industrial Animal Factories. N.p., n.d. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. Centers for Disease Control and  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 04 Apr. 2017. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. Environmental Impact of Factory  Socially Responsible Agricultural Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. Front  Organic Consumers Association Campaigning for health, justice, sustainability, peace, and democracy. N.p., n.d. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. Wallace, R. J., R. R. Martin, F. J. Quinones, and S. B. Greenberg. Ceforanide and cefazolin therapy of pneumonia: comparative clinical  Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy. U.S. National Library of Medicine, Nov. 1981. Web. 08 Apr. 2017.