MacMillan 1 Kelcie MacMillan Harley Campbell ENC 1102 3/31/17 The Vaccination Debate: How Advertisements Can Change Previous Opinions Advertisement in countries all over the world have many different uses and appeals to viewers. Advertisements can be used to prove a point about something, convince a consumer to purchase a product, or in this case, urge people to vaccinate themselves and their children. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is a government-funded organization that as the focus for developing and applying disease prevention and control, environmental health, and health promotion and health education activities designed to improve the health of the people of the United (CDC). As one of the largest health and disease prevention organizations in the United States, a primary area of influence that the CDC holds is the dispersal of vaccine information and the safe and successful administration of vaccines. The public has conflicting opinions on believe that vaccines are harmful and unnatural, while others strongly support vaccinating their children and themselves in order to protect themselves from illness. Primarily, the CDC shares this information through advertisements and the use of doctors to spread information and convince people that vaccines are useful and necessary. The Center for Disease Control successfully uses all of the four rhetorical appeals in both of the advertisements chosen and urges parents and families to get vaccination in order to be better protected from sometimes fatal illness. MacMillan 2 One of the top priorities of the CDC is to protect the public from various illnesses. The CDC, a government-funded organization, spends millions of dollars on the research and development of vaccines every year. In 2016, the total budget for the CDC solely regarding Vaccines for Children was 4,109 million dollars. This budget did not include immunization and respiratory diseases and STD/Hepatitis and TB prevention, as a separate budget of 1,910 million dollars (HHS). The success of this organization and extensive amounts of research done on vaccinations makes it a credible source, and appeals to ethos. In both of my images, the CDC logo is clearly displayed in a bold color so that it stands out in comparison to the rest of the advertisements. When people recognize the logo, they trust what it advertised because the CDC is a trusted organization. In the first image, the phrase in bold near the top of the advertisement: just 3 is also an appeal to ethos because it convinces the viewer that the information has been researched and can be trusted because of all the things that can be accomplished/have happened in three years. The photo of the doctor taking care of the baby in the top left corner of the first advertisement is also ethos because doctors are generally trusted and accepted. The CDC appeals to logos in both images I have chosen as well. Logos is far more present in the first image than the second, mainly because a plethora of facts are on the advertisement in varying fonts to get the attention. All of the facts drive the reader to realize the difference that vaccinations can make and shares facts that support the vaccination of children in order to protect them from communicable preventable disease. The way that the information in the first picture is presented and the language used makes the viewer believe that if they keep up with getting their children vaccinated, then they will have happy and healthy children. The second advertisement has less text and facts, but still appeals to logos through one of the statements on MacMillan 3 the advertisement reading: yourself and your loved This makes the viewer think that one of the best ways to protect their loved ones is to make sure that they are vaccinated. Pathos is present in the first image through the use of a picture of a doctor and a happy baby. The advertisement mainly focuses on vaccinating children, so using a smiling baby being attended by a doctor gives people a sense of relief and trust that the baby is and will be healthy. The text in the advertisement has negative connotations, using the word twice in order to convince the viewer that not following the information on the advertisement could result in serious injury. The second image uses family to emotionally appeal to the viewer. Pictured is three generations of a family, with the words yourself and your loved in bold print. This shows viewers that one of the best ways to protect the people you love by making sure their vaccinations are up to date. Kairos is effectively used in the first advertisement because it tells the exact times that parents need to vaccinate their children. Providing the ages that children should be vaccinated shows parents that the need for current and timely vaccinations is very important. A website is also provided as a reference for the it viewer. The phrase at the beginning of the advertisement just 3 makes people realize how much of a difference can be made in such a short time. In the second image, the phrase, wait. is written in bold text to stand out. It makes people realize that the time to vaccinate is now as opposed to later, and that it is important to keep your vaccinations up to date. There is also the phrase at the bottom of the second image, which prompts the reader to do some research and make sure they are aware of all of the benefits of vaccinations. Rhetorical fallacies, as defined by Purdue Owl are, errors in reasoning that will undermine the logic of your (Weber 2013). The use of these fallacies occurs in a lot of MacMillan 4 the advertisements that we see, and are sometimes hard to detect. Oftentimes, the viewer is not even aware that they have been subject to fallacy, and believe exactly the information posted. The first advertisement I chose does not seem to represent any fallacies. The second, however, does display some of the either/or fallacy. The second image reads: yourself and your loved ones. wait, This leads viewers to the conclusion that the best way to protect your family and the ones you love is to get them vaccinated. While this may be true in some aspects, vaccination is not the only way to show your loved ones that you care for them and want to protect them. Convincing the viewer that the best way to love and protect your family through vaccination is an effective way to appeal to the viewers emotions, but it does not keep the same level of transparency between the organization and viewer which can damage trust. In conclusion, the CDC effectively uses advertisements in many different ways to get the viewer to believe that vaccinations are not only necessary, but almost considered mandatory if you want to completely protect your children and loved ones. Every day, the CDC works to find more vaccinations and cures to illnesses, with a long term goal of eventually making sure that everyone, whether they be in poverty in America or struggling in another country, has access to affordable or free vaccinations in order to stop the spread of preventable illness. MacMillan 5 Center for Disease Control. Mission Statement. https://www.cdc.gov/maso/pdf/cdcmiss.pdf Secretary, HHS Office of the. FY2016 Budget in Brief -  HHS.gov. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 02 Feb. 2015. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. <https://www.hhs.gov/about/budget/budget-in-brief/cdc/index.html>. Weber, Ryan, and Allen Brizee. Welcome to the Purdue  Purdue OWL: Logic in Argumentative Writing. Purdue Owl, 11 Mar. 2013. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. <https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/659/03/>. Image 1: https://www.cdc.gov/pneumococcal/drug-resistance.html Image 2: https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/hcp/adults/for-patients/adults-all.html