Ahmed Al-Lawati ENC 1102 Mr. Fennell 30 April 2017 Integration of Technology in Education as a society, we always look forward to create the best for ourselves and construct a greater lifestyle for the upcoming people. This cycle of life has been rotating and not upgrading throughout the past couple of years. Hence, the recent information given by specific studies shows that the main people that have the greatest chance of making a huge impact on the society are the upcoming students. By targeting those upcoming students, the outcomes of this move can create an enormous uplift to the next generations and their current generations, which will definitely come in handy. Many youngsters came up with innovative ideas that helped elder people massively. Dr. Kamil, Jana and Jana mention that, findings show a successful student is most frequently described on the base of their behavior, especially in the sense of their behavior towards the goal, activity, information, people, oneself, events and situations: and in their personal traits of (101). This quotes show that the reason behind a student being successful in university is by letting him aim for his goals and work hard on achieving them. This process is really easy and usually not given much attention. Setting goals for a student can really make a difference in how he acts and reacts towards his studies. Technology was proven that it could help in many numerous ways if it was connect to education. The students tend to be the ones that are more influenced by the changes that technology made. Therefore, targeting student and providing them with education that is associated with high-end technologies can be the main result for creating an innovative and heightened forthcoming students do not know that the hands of the future generations depend on them. Nonetheless, we should not blame them for not recognizing this issue because we never educated them with this topic to begin with. A lot of people started to notice this issue and started building up their own educational institution to bring those students in and fill them in with their responsibilities towards the community. Every single member in the society has his own part that he needs to play to uplift the society. Those institutions help many students to come up with ideas that could make a change in our society. Hence, those institutions do not expect any thing in return. Worlded is an organization that emphasizes students to become future leaders by educating them and engaging them to other associations. For the past couple of years, this organization helped out people from all around the world to become public figures in the society. This was achieved by helping them with their great ideas that contributed in the society. Worlded also provides an e-learning program for their contributors. They believe that technology has innovated our generation. Therefore, this association depends on E-learning more than any other aspect. Educating the students is the number one source of building a great generation. Combining technology and education together can support in the creation of a wealthier society. was mentioned very often among the characteristics of a successful (3). That is exactly what Worlded tries to achieve. Motivating the students to create something is really important to begin with; this will help them later on in achieving their leaders in our societies had goals since they were younger. Aiming for your goal is always on top of the list. Whilst trying to achieve those goals, commitment and hard work must be cohesive. During the last couple of years, the fail rate of the students has increased dramatically. It started up 7 years ago and it escalated every next year. The reason behind it is that students mostly take their education jokingly. They do not notice that their failure is considered as a failure to the society as a whole. This issue influences a lot of people very easily. As they think it would not be a big deal if only couple of students fail in their studies. Thus, all people are needed to work hard to make their society wealthier. Educators should address this issue and work on fixing it. People think that their efforts are not even considered within the society, but they are definitely mistaken because every single bit of work counts. Educators can change the mentality of their students by the way of delivering the information. Teachers can motivate and inspire their students with the work that they have done in the past and throughout their experience. Students play a huge part in the engagement towards building society. Students mainly use technology to communicate with international individuals to use their support and experience to help build up the society. In Japan, they give out high payouts for every single job serves the community. Even for the simplest jobs, the employees get massive salaries. This is how Japan believes that every single member in their society is capable of building a greater future for the others. PROMOTE team spirit among their loyal, lifelong employees, Japanese bosses live in modest houses and take the metro to work. They also keep the pay gap between themselves and workers tiny by international (1). This quote shows that the Japanese people started to spread loyalty to their employees in their working environment to make sure they are ready to take much bigger responsibility towards their our generation is at its peak, we need to keep on making the future ones vulnerable as well. Technology can help us as a society in various ways, it can educate the non- educated and come up with new systems that fastens our working process. Technology will only develop if people do work hard on it. The youngsters in our society should come up with their brilliant ideas and act upon it. Thankfully, a lot of institutes offer support without anything in return. Also, some individuals go in depth in their researches and figure out new material that was never found before. Therefore, the society needs to unite to make progress on itself overall. Su mentions need not build a metaphysical foundation, which claims that society can be a learning mechanism on its own in a way that extends beyond the efforts of individuals to construct a (441). This quote elaborates on the idea that the society is counted as every single individual. To create a better society, working together and uniting resources is very important such as the students and associating technology and education. The work of each individual can cause a huge influence towards the conclude, the idea of building a successful forthcoming society is very important. Nonetheless, it would not build itself; people must put in a lot of effort to come up with a great end. There are a lot of institutions out there that are looking for people to begin the innovation of the future. Few of them might provide their help for free, but other However, it is definitely worth the time and the cost. relevant policies or institutions try to determine what should be learned, the direction of learning and therefore of action that individuals value is, paradoxically not something entirely decided and directed by policy or institutional 442). Institutions provide the most decent material to educate and help out the students within the community. However, not all people consider taking them into consideration because we saw a lot of bad outcomes in the past couple of years. I believe institutions must work on updating the educational policies and the materials until the bad outcomes decrease massively. This will help the upcoming students to concur the issues that the current students are facing at this point of time, as it seems that the students are the most influential figures in the Work Cited Kamil, Jana and Jana Characteristics of a Successful University  The International Journal of Learning in Higher Education 22.4 (2015): 91-105. Web. Pay check; salaries in  The Economist, 6 Aug. 2016, p. 53(US). General OneFile, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=ITOF&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&id= GALE%7CA459918338&it=r&asid=116c44a8c5cd658a1f1cdcd8c54808c0. Accessed 24 Nov. 2016. Su, Ya-Hui. S Society Capable of Learning? Beyond a Metaphysical Foundation. 56.3 (2016): 442-58. Web. Work for Us - World Education,  Work for Us - World Education, Inc. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Nov. 2016.