Nir !1 Ben Nir Harley Campbell ENC 1102 19 March 2017 The Inhumane acts of Captivity One of the most controversial topics of generation revolves around animal rights, or the inhumane acts against animals. There has been a tremendous amount of news reports within our communities as well as on a national level addressing these acts against wildlife. Beginning in the many new laws and regulations began to become ratified in order to protect animals in the wilderness that have been brought into entertainment, the food industry, clothing industry, and for experimentation. One significant animal rights organization, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), which now has millions of supporters and members, has been advocating and promoting animal rights since the late nineteen hundreds. In the PETA began to educate people by hosting many large events around the globe about these inhumane acts against animals and still continues to today History: Compassion in By launching undercover investigations against organizations that were practicing cruel and merciless acts to animals and wildlife, PETA has single handedly became one of the most notable animal rights organizations. PETA has raised awareness and fought for animal rights in the entertainment industry, clothing industry, food industry, as well as in the experimentation industry. The advertisements that are presented, portray and embody what It would look like if we were put in similar situations that animals deals with on a daily basis. The Nir !2 central issue that PETA presents in these advertisements advocates awareness to the captivity of animals in SeaWorld through specific appeals to Ethos, Pathos, Logos, and Kairos. The first advertisement that is shown below portrays an accurate representation of the living conditions that many of the mammals are placed into while in captivity. This image puts things into perspective by comparing what It would look like if a person was to actually be put into the same situation. In regards to ethos, the advertisement proves to be credible by including the PETA logo at the bottom of the image as well as having support from a celebrity, Marisa Miller, who is a famous model and actress which furthermore provides reliability. In regards to pathos, this image touches on many emotional aspects that could influence the audience. First off, the statement made Separating babies from mothers since really provides some empathy behind it by initiating the though of being taken away from your family when you were just a baby. This emotionally strikes the audience with a feeling of being heartbroken and sorrow. To further drive the audience, the actress in the advertisement (Marisa Miller) is pregnant bringing about an even more significant imagery by presenting how a mother nurtures the baby and without its mother, the new born is lonely and weak. Another portrayal of pathos in the advertisement is the celebrity in the bathtub. This shows the audience how disturbing and inhumane the living conditions are for mammals in captivity at SeaWorld. Additionally, the color scheme of the advertisement depicts a depressing and serious theme. Logos is shown in this advertisement by putting things into perspective for the audience by portraying that the that these animals live in are equivalent of bathtubs, denying them the opportunity to engage in any natural and how unacceptable these living conditions are for wildlife and Marine In regards to kairos, the advertisement presents that living in these captive Nir !3 conditions is inhumane and the entertainment business need to provide healthier living conditions as well as avoid separating these animals from their families. These animals in stable social groups ranging to 15 individuals and children will potentially stay with their mothers for proving that separating these animals from their families is detrimental for their health, mentally and physically Reasons Orcas Belong at After analyzing this advertisement, it is evident that this image reflects the concerns of PETA by advocating for healthier and captivity free environments for wildlife/animals. The second advertisement that is shown below portrays a similar yet different message as compared to the first advertisement. In this advertisement the notable model, Laura Vandevoort, plays the role of an animal in captivity in a tiny tank at the SeaWorld Park. In regards to ethos, the peta trademark, the url, and the model Laura Vandevoort at the bottom of the advertisement prove its reliability and credibility. The rhetorical appeal of pathos is presented in many different aspects within this advertisement. First off, pathos is presented by portraying a woman in a small tank, creating the thought of restriction and restraint to the audience. Additionally, this stirs up the thought of living your life without any freedom to live and experience nature. A second aspect that pertain to pathos in the advertisement is the statement at the bottom which says see Laura as confined to a tiny tank and forced to perform tricks for your which provides a humorless appeal to what SeaWorld is doing to these marine mammals as are forced to perform meaningless tricks and often torn away from family and Marine The final aspect of pathos presented in this advertisement is the dark color scheme in the background that portrays the depressing action of keeping animals in captivity. In this advertisement, logos is presented by Nir !4 portraying the inhumane acts of keeping these marine mammals in tiny tanks and forcing them to do tricks and live a life under extreme stress. These animals should be up to 100 miles a day, hunting and playing with their when they are stuck in an unnatural environment their immune systems and making them more prone to In regards to kairos, this advertisement promotes the urgency to help and assist these animals to get back to living freely and peacefully without the stress of the environment around them and the actions they are forced to do. After analyzing the second advertisement, it is apparent that PETA advocates for a more stress free living environment and stop theatrical performances that these marine mammals would do on a daily basis at the entertainment park. To conclude, Animal rights is a major topic of discussion in todays generation and advertisements such as these created and presented by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) help raise and spread awareness to many audiences around the globe. After looking over and analyzing the many different rhetorical appeals of these advertisements, PETA continues to strive in focusing on saving the lives of animals in captivity as well as promoting a more humane way of living. Nir !5 Works Cited and Marine PETA, www.peta.org/issues/animals-in-entertainment/zoos- pseudo-sanctuaries/aquariums-marine-parks/. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. WDC, Whale and Dolphin Conservation, us.whales.org/wdc-in-action/end-captivity. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. Reasons Orcas Belong at SeaWorld of Hurt, www.seaworldofhurt.com/ features/8-reasons-orcas-dont-belong-seaworld/. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. Nir !6