1 Lymaris ENC 1102 007 Prof. Mariama M. Changamire May 4, 2017 Inclusive Education Inclusion refers to the full-time placement of children with mild, moderate and severe disabilities in regular  (Staub & Peck 2). Inclusive education differs from previously held notions of  and , which tended to be concerned principally with disability and special education  and implied accommodation of all categories of learners in the classroom. This type of education is concerned with minimizing and removing barriers to access participation and learning opportunities for all children, but especially for those who have been socially discriminated because of poverty, disability, gender, religion, ethnicity or any inequalities (Udeme & Nneka 1). Also, according to the National Centre on Educational Restructuring and Inclusion, inclusive education means: providing to all students, including those with significant disabilities, equitable opportunities to receive effective educational services, with the needed supplementary aids and support services, in age appropriate classrooms, in order to prepare students for productive lives as full members of society. When it comes to this type of education, the parents perspective on the matter is very important to consider because the family is the first area of intervention in dealing with diversity & Moliner 1). They care about what positive outcomes inclusive education might have and whether it benefits their children or not. Inclusive education benefits both students with and without learning disabilities because it promotes a better academic experience, social skills, and the acceptance of differences. 2 Inclusive education means a radical change in the way we think about education, but not just in relation to students with any difficulties or special educational need, but for everyone. This educational model is, undoubtedly, one of the foundations for a democratic society and one of the values that, with multiculturalism, contributes to the creation of a new school and a better society which promote fair, equitable and humane politics & Moliner 1). The way to an inclusive school is complex, and the changes and transformations involved multiple people: parents, teachers, students and members of a community. So we cannot ignore the role of families in this process, because as said above, the family is the first area of intervention in dealing with diversity and supporting them is one of the first tasks of an inclusive school. This educational style attached great value to families, to the information they possess, their participation and involvement in education, and their opinions and beliefs over this education model. In fact, according to & Moliner, beliefs of families become very important in the process of educational change. Attitudes are built on these beliefs, also subjective norms, intentions and a inclusive or exclusive (1) A recent study showed that families emphasize that inclusive education has great educational benefits & Moliner 4). The academic performance is usually the first item to be considered for the families as assessment of inclusion value. Inclusion has academic benefits for all students, whether with or without disabilities, such as, age-appropriate models of behaviour skills, more active participation in the school community, individualized education goals, and access to the rich core curriculum (Udeme & Nneka 2). Inclusion recognizes that all students are learners who benefit from a meaningful, challenging, and appropriate curriculum and differentiated instruction techniques that address their unique strengths and needs (Udeme & Nneka 2). 3 Inclusive schools have to be well-equipped in all aspects to cater and deliver quality education for all children. This includes having a balanced curriculum that is appropriate for all categories of children, teachers who have the ability to handle the individual needs within the classroom and thereby promote an environment where personal development, social skills and student participation are strongly encouraged (Balasubramanian).It is also believed that integration into the mainstream enables students with disabilities to benefit from the stimulation of mixing with relatively more able students and to have the opportunity to observe higher models of social and academic behaviour (Udeme & Nneka 2). On an interpersonal level, inclusive education allows children to develop friendships with their peers and feel less social tension about their disabilities. Some people believe that children who are placed in standard classroom environments generally have higher self-esteem than children who are isolated to different classrooms simply because they have special needs (California Special Needs Law Group). There is a growing recognition that including students with disabilities in general education can provide them with the opportunity to learn in natural, stimulating settings, which may also lead to increased acceptance and appreciation of differences (Udeme & Nneka 1). A critical aspect of inclusive education for a special needs child is having the acceptance and friendship of classmates. This kind of support also aids in the progress of special children and helps them gain confidence within the school environment(Balasubramanian). The implementation of inclusive education has a number of advantages such as: encouraging students without disabilities to accept and tolerate children with special needs, eliminates or reduces social stigma associated with people with special needs, provides an all-round development of 4 the child with and without special needs, and enables children without special needs develop positive attitude towards people with handicap conditions (Udeme & Nneka 3). Udeme & Nneka listed the following as principles of a properly planned and fully implemented inclusive education: appropriate age and grade placements; no special classes or schools; cooperative learning practiced; special education support given to regular education; and collaborative efforts needed to provide service to all who need them (2). Giangreco identified common features of schools where inclusive education is reported to be thriving. These features are: collaborative teamwork; a shared framework; family involvement; general educator ownership; clear role relationships among professionals; effective use of support staff; meaningful Individual Education Plans (IEPs) and procedures for evaluating effectiveness (3-8). Standard and adequate supervision should be ensured so that these lofty but well intentioned introductions into the educational system will achieve its desired goals. The first important step is to change the discriminatory attitudes towards youth and adults who have disabilities which are as a result of superstitions about causation of disabilities (Ajuwon & Sykes 4). attitudes have been found to influence the process and the outcome of inclusion to a great extent (Avramidis, Bayliss & Burdenet 3). Udeme & Nneka stated that two factors are important in the formation of positive attitudes towards inclusion, namely, increased knowledge and information about school inclusion and disabilities (2). Even though students have several benefits they can gain from inclusive education like building a better academic experience, gaining social skills, and learning to accept others differences, there are several barriers for providing education to special children in a regular classroom such as all forms of superstitious beliefs about disabilities that have for so long inhibited involvement with people with disabilities in education and the community. When this is 5 done, it will enable children with special needs to have a distinctive experience by undergoing inclusive education along with normal, non-disabled classmates. Obstacles to inclusive education can be overcome by creating awareness on what inclusion is and the benefits to the society, schools having the resources and the ability to re-structure their curriculum to cater to all types of students, by recruiting teachers who have the skills and proficiency to meet varying demands within the classroom and by having the support of family. There are several steps one can take to help support the inclusive educational system in all schools. For the parents with a special needs child, they can become involved with the Parent Advisory Council at the school their child attends and the District Parent Advisory Council that advises their School Board. This way, they can be the voice in the Council that promotes the inclusive education system if not already implemented, or, if the system already exist in the school, they can be the voice that suggests ideas on how to make it better. Another thing that can be done is to write letters to elected officials, provincially and locally, if anyone has concerns with issues related to inclusive public education that have an impact on them and their families. Also, people can join an organization that supports inclusive education. By doing this, they are helping to raise awareness and supporting individuals with and without learning disabilities. Lastly, donations could be done to these organizations. This will help them train teachers in the latest educational strategies, advocate for children in the classroom and create opportunities for success for all individuals affected by learning disabilities. The bottom line of this type of education for students with disabilities should be equitable access to opportunities that will guarantee successful outcomes in education, employment and community integration. 6 Word Count: 1,419 Works Cited Ajuwon, P. M. Inclusive Education for Students With Disabilities in Nigeria: Benefits, Challenges and Policy International Journal of Special Education, p.1-17. April 16, 2017. 7 Avramidis E, Bayliss P, Burden R. survey into mainstream attitudes towards the inclusion of children with special education needs in the ordinary school in one local education Educational Psychology; 20(2): 191-212. Web. April 15, 2017. http://dcidj.org/article/view/117/88 Balasubramanian, A. education for children with special The Hindu. Web. April 15, 2017 http://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp- opportunities/inclusive-education-for-children-with-specialneeds/article3959638.ece California Special Needs Law Group. Concept of Inclusive Education and Understanding Children with Special California Special Needs Law Group. Web. April 16, 2017. http://www.csnlg.com/blog/the-concept-of-inclusive-education-and-understanding- children-with-special-needs/ Ana, Odet Moliner. Families Beliefs about Inclusive Education  Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences, vol. 116, no. 5th World Conference on Educational Sciences. pp. 3286-3291. Web. April 14, 2017. http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S187704281400766 6? Giangreco, M. F. lessons learned about inclusive education: summary of the 1996 Schonell Memorial International Journal of Disability, Development and Education, 44(3): p. 193-206. 206.pdf National Centre on Educational Restructuring and Inclusion. Study of Inclusive City Univ. of New York, NY. National Center on Educational Restructuring 8 and Inclusion. p. 14-23. Web. April 15, 2017. http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED375606.pdf Staub D, Peck C. are the outcomes for nondisabled Educational Leadership. no. 52 (4) p. 36-40.Web. April 16, 2017. 0Research.pdf Udeme Samuel, Jacob, Nneka Olisaemeka, Angela. Inclusive Education in the 21St Century: Parameters and Opportunities for Learners with Special  European Scientific Journal, no. 10, 2016. p. 188. http://eujournal.org/index.php/esj/article/view/7320/7063