Ledesma 1 Kimberly Ledesma Mrs. Penuliar Enc1102 Project 3 Final Draft 2 May 2017 The Bad Apple In the United States, schools rely heavily on standardized tests. The schools, their districts, and overall the department of education rely much too heavily on these assessments for what is truly needed. It seems that every year the number of tests administered to students goes up. The benefits of testing students do more harm than good, and the officials and organizations that maintain this testing environment and increase it every year for students in America should change what they are doing and realize that it is not helping as much as they believe. Action is required to make a difference for students all over the United States whether that be through encouragement, speaking our minds, or informing politicians of our concerns. A phenomenal way of becoming a part of a movement, or of making a difference is to be educated on the problem at hand, the possible solutions, and the organizations that believe in what you want to change. The American Evaluation Association (AEA) is an association that dedicates itself to evaluating in different facets. The mission says, improve evaluation practices and methods, increase evaluation use, promote evaluation as a profession, and support the contribution of evaluation to the generation of theory and knowledge about effective human (American Evaluation Association). The AEA wants to improve the current situation of standardized testing; this portrays their passion for students, and their wellbeing. The association Ledesma 2 believes in the improvement of evaluations. The association wrote a report on their position regarding high stakes testing and how it has negative Some of these negative consequences include more dropouts, deprofessionalization of staff, and the concentration of money going toward testing (American Evaluation Association 1). Also, under No Child Left Behind, every annual test has to meet achievement leading to a of sanctions and (Brown). The AEA report also discusses that one of the issues with these tests is that they are insufficient. There is more to a knowledge that an assessment cannot family environment, their economic status, and their health. They just want to build upon what has already been put in want to look at what has been done that can be improved and go from there. One of the many reasons why the current standardized testing situation needs to improve is simple to understand for many students. just two simple words: Testing Anxiety. Many people could actually do well on these exams--better than what their scores show. The reason for that is because of testing anxiety. Being nervous to do well on a test can ruin everything and make you forget all the information you knew previously. Another factor that plays into testing anxiety is being timed. Simply knowing that you have to complete a test--or anything for that matter--in a specific amount of time is stressful and makes you do worse than you would normally do because you feel pressured. This is another factor that adds to the anxiety that already exists of knowing that a good score is crucial. Unfortunately it has become such a common problem among students that it is listed on the Anxiety and Depression Association of website (Anxiety and Depression Association of America). average student in big-city public schools takes some 112 mandatory standardized tests between pre-kindergarten and the end of 12 th (Strauss). Take a Ledesma 3 moment and wrap your mind around 112 mandatory assessments. There are a total of thirteen grades, and 112 tests throughout those is around 8 tests each those numbers are only an average. The fact that 112 tests throughout grade school is only an average means that there are students that take more than 8 mandatory tests every year, and may possibly end up taking more than 112 tests from pre-k until they graduate high school. Now another question comes into play: Is this affecting the students in our nation? The answer is yes. In an article by Alia Wong, a writer for the education section of The Atlantic, that was written only a little over a year ago she states that, number of students enrolling in colleges and universities this year is 1.7 percent lower than it was last Not only are the rates for students enrolling in colleges and universities decreasing but also, students dropout of high school every (DoSomething.org). The more testing that is experienced by the students in our nation is making its mark. Slowly, it will begin to affect students at higher rates, and more severely. The knowledge and educational growth of the students is priority. Education is truly underestimated. Teachers are undervalued and underpaid and students do not get the proper credit for all the work they put in to their education. Students are the future of the United States. It is crucial to be attentive and compassionate to our students and educators to make sure that they are getting the best foundation of education and knowledge. This issue may not seem as important as others like world hunger or poverty for example, but the fact is that this is the future of the United States. Their education matters more than it is recognized. Therefore should the time they spend in school be spent primarily on absorbing material or on testing them to see if they have mastered what they are learning? Should an entire days worth in hours be spent on standardized testing in schools each year? (CBS/AP). At the end of the day, are scores in school Ledesma 4 enough to evaluate a progress? Or can an alternative option be found to promote even more success in students? So many hours and days in school are wasted on standardized testing. Frequently, classrooms will be near empty because students are pulled out for testing and too often the entire schedule of classes and bells ringing in middle and high schools will be completely rearranged simply to accommodate tests. It is stressful enough to be on top of schoolwork, extracurriculars, chores, and sometimes a job as well. It is unnecessary to add the extra stress and simply to measure a growth in a year, or an evaluation for a teacher. Those two reasons are not enough for all that students go through. These reasons can be tested and analyzed through schoolwork and grades. Change is possible if we work hard enough to make it reality. Be involved. If you are a parent, talk to your student(s). If you are a teacher talk to your faculty and staff at your institution, or to the higher-ups at the district or state level. Go to board meetings and state your opinion and use your voice. Inspire other students, or other parents to become involved in making a difference. Join other organizations that are working to make a difference in our education system like school-based organizations or try to be involved with testing agencies, like CollegeBoard and the Educational Testing Service, to influence them and provide insight. Be aware of what is happening in your community, district, state, and in our nation. Change begins with us. Small individual changes, make a big difference in society. It creates a wave of change, and inspires others. Becoming involved in the education system and in lives is crucial. Listening to their opinions, their stories, their struggles and successes. Encouraging students to follow their hearts and to be inspired can be the biggest difference. If students feel stressed, overwhelmed, or as if they are being oppressed with standardized testing, Ledesma 5 the best thing to do is to encourage them to speak up. Being an encourager, or an inspiration can make even the smallest difference in a life or using your position as an adult to create change. Encourage them to use their position as a student who is actively going through these tests year after year, month after month, to voice their thoughts to those who can make legal differences, whether that be at the district level, state level, or maybe even the national level. Parents and adults can write to their congressmen and those who are in charge of these laws that force students to take such an immense amount of tests. Ledesma 6 Works Cited American Evaluation Association. American Evaluation Association Position Statement on HIGH STAKES TESTING In PreK-12 Education. Publication. American Evaluation Association, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.eval.org/d/do/128>. Brown, Emma. Teachers Union, Think Tank Propose Compromise on K-12 Testing of U.S.  The Washington Post. WP Company, 29 Jan. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. CBS/AP. Study reveals how many required tests students  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 26 Oct. 2015. Web. 07 Apr. 2017. Strauss, Valerie. Confirmed: Standardized Testing Has Taken Over Our Schools. But To  The Washington Post. WP Company, 24 Oct. 2015. Web. 06 Apr. 2017. Test  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. ADAA, n.d. Web. 29 Apr. 2017. Wong, Alia. Where Are All the High-School Grads  The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, 11 Jan. 2016. Web. 07 Apr. 2017. 11 Facts About High School Dropout  DoSomething.org Volunteer for Social Change. DoSomething.org, n.d. Web. 07 Apr. 2017.