David Francisco Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Breaking the Myths on Immigration When thinking about laws and their purpose, no one would have guessed that the Naturalization of 1790, which was enacted as the first immigration policy, was a policy that would suppress races and benefit others. While in the it viewed as a inequality, the Nationality Act was not counting in slavery and minorities, it was an effort as well to keep immigration out of the country. However, in 2015, it was recorded from the United States Census Bureau that an estimated 43 million immigration resided in the United States (American Factfinder). From that portion of the population, 22 million were non-citizens of the U.S. That large number of immigrants has only increased for the improvement of the economy of the U.S. and to give an opportunity for those who live in an environment of war. In 2017, organizations have given an effort in helping reduce segregation and racism by having protest and petitioning against acts that be established. Even though the purpose of the Naturalization of 1790 was to give advantage of a certain race, the movements that fought against these acts have succeeded. Every individual who claim themselves as a human being can only fight for the equality that racism, segregation, and any type of superior belief has tried to destroy. As stated before, the Naturalization of 1790 or the Nationality act was not only a way to suppress races, in which it states, any alien, being a free white , but also made the term born a problem as well (Indiana Univ. Bloomington). Before an argument can be made about why immigration policies need to be reduced, it is needed to view the history of each policy and their impact to immigration. While there are many specific details to talk about for every event, the focus will be on acts that changed and had the whole world thinking about the policies. The Alien Enemies Act was four bills whenever there shall be a declared war between the United States and any foreign nation or of the age of fourteen years and upwards, who shall be within the United States, and not actually naturalized, shall be liable to be apprehended, restrained, secured and removed, as alien (Alien Enemies Act). The reason for the push was to prevent any attacks during World War I and a reaction to the bombing of Pearl Harbor. While some may argue that it was for the safety of citizens, this act was more specific to males who were the age of fourteen which make sense as the required age to join was 18. Not only that but the U.S. was tearing families apart due to this and those innocents were being affected, does that sound familiar? Then the Page act of 1875 was another restriction on Asian immigrants. While the Alien Enemies Act had its reasons, this one was due to people and in theory tried to stop Asian women who directed towards prostitution. They prevented Asians to enter to also stop coolie labor which in their perspective hurt the economy. This law restricted an opportunity because during that time the California Gold Rush was happening which could have helped Asian families but the act took that away, does that sound familiar? On the side note of this act came the Chinese Exclusion Act in 1882 which was self-explanatory. This act was in effect for ten years and prevented any labor in fear of disruption. The reason for the constant question of it sound is because history is on repeat. If history influence people, then factual evidence is the only way to convince citizens that these policies need to be as strict. The one myth that has been on the side of having restriction was the impact that immigration has on the economy. Some may argue that they are hurting the economy by taking white collar jobs, but from the Economic Policy Institute (EPI) they found, the United States as a whole, there are almost as many immigrants in white-collar jobs (46 percent) as in all other occupations (5). While some may argue that this is a huge percentage, all white-collar jobs pay well, and the share of U.S.-born workers in white-collar jobs is even (5). From there people may argue that immigrant even contribute to the U.S. government income which is also a myth. A data table from the Economic Policy Institute provided evidence from 2011 that stated, have an outsized role in U.S. economic output because they are disproportionately likely to be working and are concentrated among prime working In fact, the share of immigrant workers who own small businesses is slightly higher than the comparable share among U.S.-born workers. (Immigrants comprise 18 percent of small business (EPI 4). The final concern is that immigrants are to blame for the decrease in minimum wages. What they mean by this is those who have a high school education tend to see competition in wage as those who are from another region see it fit as they just want income for their families. While this point could be a true statement, it is found out to be a false accusation. The table provided summarizes that it has a positive impact over the years of 1994-2007 (EPI 8). There are many more factors that could be said about how immigration has not caused any disruption to the economy of the U.S. but this amount of evidence can clearly influence. While these efforts of evidence have a chance to influencing an individual, having more people to fight for a cause has a greater impact. For example, Undocumedia is an organization that strives, be a resource to the immigrant community throughout the (Official Website). They help with the immigrant community by helping them with applying for DACA. This stands for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals which allows them to work with a permit and avoid deportation. They try to help the immigration community by informing them of current events and what to do in certain situations. Some see them as a support group but others view them as advocators of allowing illegal immigration or giving them an advantage. They allow donations as they are not a government funded organization nor are they a profit organization. There are many organizations like this that try to help but one thing any citizen could do to help the immigration problem is to petition and protest. Not only that but informing the community on the current actions being taken allows citizens to be aware and act on the decisions. If you view how history is, one could say that due to segregation and stereotypes it has been one of the causes for restriction on immigration. Everyone wants equality but having that would mean allowing sacrifices to be made and having America to be the opportunity for foreign people to live the American Dream. In Florida, Tampa had a protest on the current 2017 executive order of banning Muslim. It occurred at the Ybor Centennial Park where people peacefully protested demanding change. This occurred January 29 and continued during the afternoon at the University of South Florida where another protest occurred at the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Plaza. This event and many others occurring in nearby areas continue and while it seems as though it was temporary, the protests will eventually be heard. Overall, many myths have been made about immigration and thus have established act that cause restrictions to become part of the U.S. Over history, Caucasians made the first act of 1790 to allow citizenship but include other ethnicities. Then the U.S. decided to prevent Asians from entering the U.S. due to undesirable reasons. In 2017, the president is enforcing more actions in preventing Muslims, Hispanics, and other immigrants from entering the U.S. because there are or is in play. When problems like that tend to always happen from any race or place. The only way to prevent a regrettable decision to be made is for you, the reader, to take actions in petitioning and peacefully protesting. Citations: Alien Enemies  Alien Enemies Act, 04 Jan. 2009, p. 1. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=a2 h&AN=21212344&site=eds-live. Data Access and Dissemination Systems (DADS). GEOGRAPHIC MOBILITY BY SELECTED CHARACTERISTICS IN THE UNITED  American Factfinder - Results. United States Census Bureau, 05 Oct. 2010. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. H105, American History  Naturalization laws 1790-1795. Indiana University Bloomington, Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Costa, Daniel, David Cooper, and Heidi Shierholz. Facts About Immigration and the U.S. Economy: Answers to Frequently Asked  Economic Policy Institute, 12 Aug. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. http://www.epi.org/publication/immigration-facts/#epi-toc-10. Documedia. https://www.undocumedia.org/