Fiallo 1 Joshua Fiallo Professor De Carion Composition II 23 April 2017 College athletes deserve more In the 2014 fiscal year, the governing body of college athletics, the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), collected a revenue of 989 million dollars. On top of the 989 million dollars made by the NCAA itself, its member universities collect more than 11 billion dollars in total annually (moneynation.com). Student athletes serve as the foundation for the multi-billion-dollar business that is college sports, but often times receive very little in return in comparison to what they bring to their university. While making millions for their schools, athletes in some cases will receive a free or partially free education for their hard work, in the form of a scholarship, but even then thousands of athletes are left out. The time is now for Americans to oppose the NCAA, and push them into making rule changes that will allot more freedom to student athletes fiscally, and force schools to compensate for player injuries acquired on the field of play. In America, college athletes work full time at their sport, but receive too little in return for their contributions to their team, in some cases, nothing at all. Commonly amongst non- athlete college students, college athletes are often viewed as people who have everything going for them. They could be accepted into college with lack luster high school GPAs, they had their school paid for, had their own personal tutors, received free gear from the school and are popular figures around campus. true, a full scholarship for a Division I college football player equates to around 36,000 dollars according to scholarshipstats.com, including: tuition, books, Fiallo 2 housing and meal plans. However, football players the only student athletes at universities. For any sport that football or basketball, the average scholarship per team is only 11,000 dollars, three times less than that of college football players (Senne, 1). This matters because the average yearly tuition cost for a state school is more than $17,000 a year (Pope). an entire 6,000 thousand more than the average scholarship for sports, not even including room and board. Most would say that all college kids have this problem, and for these athletes to and get a The problem with that statement is, already working full time with their sport. According to a lawsuit that was filed against the University of North Carolina, athletes reported that they spend at least 32 hours a week on just practice alone (Jacobs). Mix in traveling to games, the games themselves, and required team study sessions, the hours surely reach above 40 hours weekly full time job. With that being said, colleges should not pay student athletes directly. However, universities should not have the right to stop players from making money on their own. Current rules by the NCAA forbid college athletes to make a profit in any way that regards to their sport (NCAA.com). For example: under the current NCAA rules, a college tennis player struggling for money cannot host a tennis camp in his home town to raise extra money. Even if he/she says nothing about playing for the university in his advertisement for the camp, it is not allowed, and the consequences extend as far as removal from the team. the equivalent of telling somebody in college they tutor high schoolers for money because they are still a student themselves, and be kicked out of the university if they do. With athletes working full time for their teams, as well as being full time students, not easy for athletes to find jobs to help pay the17,000 dollars in tuition every year. They deserve the right to be able to make money on their own that relates to their sport because after all, that is often times what they Fiallo 3 know better than anything else. The restriction the NCAA enforces upon their student athletes keeps them from receiving any money from endorsements is another rule that needs to be changed by the NCAA. This rule states that an athlete cannot showcase or market any kind of product, go on a commercial, or do anything for money that has to do with their sport. If athletes are forced to market certain items and brands for the school, then it right for the NCAA to restrict the athletes from doing it themselves. Rules must be changed fast or college athletes will continue to struggle financially. To go along with restricting how athletes can be paid, the NCAA does not help athletes who sustain injuries on the playing field pay for medical expenses, and they do not force individual universities to do so either (NCAA.com). One unfortunate story told by AL.com, an online newspaper based in Alabama, shed light on the issue when talking about Kyle Hardick, a former basketball player at the University of Oklahoma in 2012. The story discusses Hardicks hardships after he tore his lateral meniscus in a game during his sophomore season at Oklahoma. The team doctors at the university mistreated, and misdiagnosed the injury leading it to become worse as the season went on. Kyle underwent multiple surgeries to fix the knee that would lead to at least 10,000 dollars in medical bills. The Hardicks received no help from the university despite Kyle being on a full scholarship. Hardicks mother told AL.com, been difficult, no doubt, you imagine paying those medical bills out of your own pocket when your child gets a  After his injury, the University of Oklahoma renew Hardicks scholarship, forcing him to transfer schools. Hardicks case is one of hundreds that happen yearly throughout the nation. Not only did the University of Oklahoma choose to remove his scholarship due to his injury, they left Hardick and his family to pay 10,000 dollars on their own. According to ESPN.com, the University of total athletic Fiallo 4 revenue was $77,098,008 in 2008. Would a rule that forced universities to cover sports related injuries truly affect the universities that much? Something needs to be done soon for the sake of the athletes. Currently, there are numerous different organizations fighting against the NCAA to improve student rights. Most notably the College Athletes Players Association (CAPA), an organization ran by ex-college athletes, is working through petitions in order to raise awareness for their cause, and to gain enough support the point where the NCAA cannot ignore what they have to say. Two of the issues the organization is addressing is: changing the rules that ban NCAA players from earning money from endorsements, and for a rule to be added that forces universities to cover medical expenses for athletes that sustain injuries in the field of play. Getting involved with the organization is simple as all they ask for is a signature on their petitions, and for donations to help pay for lobbyists who are fighting to have their issues put on ballots for Americans to vote on. In conclusion, student athletes have it as good as the world thinks. Thankfully, organizations such as the CAPA are here to educate the masses in America, and enable them to engage in the issues regarding student athletes in America. After all, athletes are people just like us, and they deserve to be treated fairly. Fiallo 5 Works Cited Gerencer, Tom. Much Money Does the NCAA Money Nation, Money Nation, 17 Nov. 2016, moneynation.com/how-much-money-does-the-ncaa-make/. Accessed 23 Apr. 2017. Jacobs, Peter. The Insane Amount Of Time Student-Athletes Spend On Business Insider, Business Insider, 27 Jan. 2015, www.businessinsider.com/college- student-athletes-spend-40-hours-a-week-practicing-2015-1. Accessed 23 Apr. 2017. Pope, Justin. cost at public colleges tops Post and Courier, 25 Oct. 2011, www.postandcourier.com/news/average-cost-at-public-colleges- Accessed 23 Apr. 2017. Senne, Joshua, A Review of the Business Model, Amateurism, and Paying the  Sport Journal, Dec. 2016, p. 1. Accessed 23 Apr. 2017. Solomon, Jon. rights: NCAA requires health insurance, but schools decide what to AL.com, 19 Feb. 2012, Accessed 23 Apr. 2017. ESPN, ESPN Internet Ventures, www.espn.com/ncaa/revenue. Accessed 23 Apr. 2017. College Athletes Players Association (CAPA), www.collegeathletespa.org/. Accessed 24 Apr. 2017. Athletic Scholarships & Chances of playing college College Athletic Scholarships & Chances of playing college sports, www.scholarshipstats.com/. Fiallo 6 Accessed 23 Apr. 2017. The Official Website of NCAA NCAA.com, www.ncaa.com/. Accessed 23 Apr. 2017.