Caskey 1 Cayla Caskey Ms. Theo ENC1102 April 30 2017 Animals in Captivity Animals are being held captive, like criminals, but they have not done anything wrong. Animals are taken from their homes and thrown into a zoo to be observed in their everyday lives by children, adults, scientists, and so many other people. Why do we as humans feel it is our right to hold these beautiful captive in our manmade environments for the soul purpose of entertainment? Many people believe that an animal being in a zoo is beneficial, but beneficial to whom? Not the animal. A manmade environment does not meet all the needs of a wild animal, we know this so why do we still lead ourselves to believe we are helping them when we are not. You can help make a change, there are so many things you can do. These include boycotting zoos, supporting wildlife centers, rehabilitation centers and so much more. Animals are being held captive in manmade enclosures that cannot support their lifestyle. Being in a zoo is very harmful to an mental and physical health. and wildlife parks preclude or severely restrict natural behavior, such as flying, swimming, running, hunting, climbing, scavenging, foraging, digging, exploring, and selecting a (PETA). Not being able to act normally through their average day their physical and mental being is effected in a negative way. Animals that used to be able to run free, be happy, and have a natural life are now stuck in a small enclosure with many other animals and do not have enough room to be comfortable. Along with this, how would you feel if someone was watching your every move? Would you act normally? The answer is no, it is only natural for someone or something to feel Caskey 2 uncomfortable when being stared at through very person or intimate times. physical and mental frustrations of captivity often lead to abnormal, neurotic, and even self-destructive behavior, such as incessant pacing, swaying, head-bobbing, bar-biting, and (PETA). Being in these cages are not helping these wild creatures; they need their space to roam free and happy. When tested animals show poorer results when living in captivity compared to living in the wild. Chimpanzees specifically underperform in captivation compared to the wild. captive chimpanzees, behaviours include behaviours observed only in captivity (i.e. species-atypical behaviours) and those that are performed at higher rates in captivity compared to in the (Hopper 112). Many people believe that animals are less likely to get parasites and diseases when living in captivity but based off of information given in the book Conservation Biology this is not the case, animals are more likely to contract diseases and different parasites the more times they are moved and relocated (Cunningham). Captivity just is not a suitable environment for these creatures. They deserve to be in the wild where they belong. In addition many of these beautiful creatures are taken from their homes without legitimate reason. Many zoos take in animals that are larger and have less chance of living long lives in captivity because they are looking for the right attraction that will bring forth the crowd that they are looking for. Many animals that are taken from the wild with the intent of being protected is not even the truth, or even if they were not taken from the wild and were born in captivity the animals are unaware of the whole world around them. The majority of the animals in captivity are not endangered species (PETA). If the goal is to protect the species and their habitat then why are we not doing exactly that? Why are we not protecting their natural habitats if we are worried about the species becoming extinct? It is a known fact that zoos no longer serve the purpose in which they were created, or said to be created to protect endangered and Caskey 3 threatened species. These animals are no longer being kept in captivity for their protection, they are being kept for the entertainment of the general public. These animals are prisoners of the zoo. animals are constantly on the move worldwide as a result of these global processes, traditional in situ (place-based) conservation methods seem no longer sufficient to save threatened (Sandler 2012). We need to abandon the idea of zoos and move towards protecting the species itself along with its environment. These animals are dying out quicker when being held in captivity, which does not sound like we are protecting their species. The environment is not the problem, it is the people who change and alter their environments, hunting them, and making the species relocate more often than they naturally would. According to the author of Captivity for Conversation, Keulartz, animals experience more stress the more they are moved around and relocated, which adds to the argument, or the suggestion to protect their natural environments rather than putting these endangered and threatened species into zoos and different smaller more compact environments. Animals would benefit greatly from zoos being shut down and their habitats being protected from hunters, scavengers, and so on. These animals do not deserve to be taken from the wild when doing just that increases their likelihood of going extinct. Continue the conversation on animals in captivity you and your friends need to be educated, children and adults everywhere need to learn about animals, observe them, learn about their lives, and how they act in the wild. Teaching a child about animals when the animal is stuck in a box shows them not to respect the animal and see it as something that can think and feel for itself (CAPS). Animals are living, breathing animals, just like you. You are part of the animal kingdom. Imagine if you were not on the top of the food chain, would you want to be locked in a cage with other animals banging on the glass waiting for you to entertain them? Well come Caskey 4 together and make a change. Stop supporting zoos, there are other ways that you can educate yourself about these wild creatures while still allowing them to behave as they would in their natural habitat. Wildlife rehabilitation centers allow people to see wild animals that are there getting care for whatever they need but then are released back into the wild. Join an anti- captivation group, and donate to and captivity societies who will make sure the animals find their way back to their homes. Along with all of this come to an informational assembly that tells you what you can do to help make wildlife wild again, it is called in the the info session will be held on April 27 th in the MSC Oval Theater. Some of the information at this assembly will inform you about how you can help the cause, and if you cannot attend you can still help by donating to a nearby wildlife center, and avoiding the support of zoos. In conclusion, animals are a very important part of our natural environment and need to be protected in the wild where they can attend their needs and be free. Wildlife is exactly that, wild. These animals are not pets, you cannot find them in a box at the pet store, so why put them in a box anywhere else? Animals live longer, healthier, happier lives when they are left in the wild. Their health dramatically decreases when they are kept in cages and the ways they are put into these cages should be illegal. These animals are taken from their homes for no reason and thrown in a cage and locked away for life with only a small slot in the wall to be fed. This is no way to live so help make a change. Boycott zoos and support wildlife centers instead. Caskey 5 Work Cited Rights Uncompromised:  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017 Cunnigham, Andrew A. Conservation Biology. Vol. 10. N.p.: n.p., n.d. Print. Hopper, Lyndia M., Hani D. Freeman, and Stephan R. Ross. coprophagy as an indicator of negative welfare for captive Applied Animal Behavioral Science 127 (2016):112-19 Web. 6 Apr. 2017 Keulartz, Jozef. Captivity for Conservation? Zoos at a  Journal of Articles & Environmental Ethics 28.2 (2015): 335-351. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Sollund, Ragnhild. Crime, Law, and Social Change . Vol. 55. N.p.: n.p., 2011. Print Zoos  Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017.