Alqallaf 1 Hasan Alqallaf ENC 1102 Mariama Changmire 5/2/2017 The Effects of Video Games The future of entertainment will be greatly influenced by technology. Video games are becoming more realistic from the development of programmers and technology by the time. Video games became popular from and grabbed many peoples attention, and here were all the problems started. The teens comprise the majority of customers for the violent video games that encourage the fighting and killing of enemies. Most people think that video games are a normal thing for children to do on a daily basis, but they know what are the effects of it so this paper will aim to explain the effects and problems caused by video games. Teens develop disastrous numeral effects after over playing video games, and the limiting of the gameplay will also result in multiple positive effects. Young players will be incited to act violently if they overplay the violent video games. Repetitive killing main experienced in the video games will motivate the teens to act aggressively. The majority of the video games are mainly about killing if the player acquires these actions too often he will eventually learn the actions and be a killer or violent in the future. In a study previously carried out two groups were requested to play violent video games more than the other groups. The two groups that played more games acquired more exposure to Alqallaf 1 the game and were more violent than the group that played fewer games. The act of overplaying the violent video games can make the player perceive violence as fun. Playing the violent games more often make the teenagers relate to violence as part of entertainment because performing great violent moves while playing the video games will make the player to earn more rewards. The continuous playing of the games will make the player to develop a habit of being aggressive for fun in a violent way. Notably, if there is overplaying of the violent video games the difference between violence in real life and violence in the form of fun in games will not be clearly met. The majority of the violent video games contain scenes with plans and many weapons like explosives and rifles are incorporated in the games. When a player gets constant exposure to the violence, dead bodies and blood shedding in the games the player will in the, long run be insensitive to violence. Aacp organization states that kids tend to be unsocial violent and obese because of playing video games a lot. The players who overplay the violent video games will be more familiar with violent acts and will, in the long run, view the violent acts as normal (Clebrone et al 2) For that being said, The video games tend to get addictive if they are evenly abused. The players of the video games develop a constant habit of playing the games more often because of the game rewards they get, and they are challenged to play more and more to gain more rewards. The video games have unique features comprising of several objectives that make the player get hooked up for a long period playing the games in a bid to achieve the maximum objectives of the games. Most of the video games have several levels to be achieved that come with prestige and power-ups so the majority of the people who play the games are in a strict competition to be the person to achieve the highest levels of the game and get the most prestigious titles, Alqallaf 1 but the problem is that for this to be achieved it will take constant playing of the games for a long period. Also, the video games have achievements where medals are offered if the player completes an incredible action in the game, these achievements are only there for fun and bragging. People play the violent video games more often because of the existence of constant changing competition. Groups and alliance in the games motivate the players to increase their investments in the games to get more games of the similar nature. Despite the fact that the addiction to video games has not been scientifically proven there are several rehab centers established to address the video game addiction. The persistent playing of the games with abundant players will lead to the increased likelihood of the players developing poor social skills and even be overweight. From a study carried out by ScienceDaily.com, it evidently shows that teenagers tend to eat more while playing the video games than they do while resting (Mihan, et al 300). Most people eat more while playing video games not considering that video games require no physical activity. This act results in the imbalance of the intake and out calorie in the players. Games mainly make people engage in playing the games more and more and do not promote the act of going out and exercising. The continuous playing of games prevents teenagers from going out and socializing with other teenagers. They cannot even make new friends or meet new people because they are glued to the games most of the time (Saleem et al 283). The difficulty in making new friends and socializing with the outside world is necessitated by the fact that the teenagers more often stay indoors playing the video games. The video game players meet people in the games, and these give them an idea that they can easily deliver when it comes to face to face conversations. Alqallaf 1 The mainly manage their conversations through headphones. The outside world tends to view the games players as only players not what they are truly are. A Player with a higher rank in the games will be more acknowledged by his or her peers giving him the comfort of not being interactive with those who do not know his or her playing prowess in the video games. When the frequent game players are faced with real life conversation, they get uncomfortable because they cannot relate well with the foreign conversations they are not familiar with. The reducing of overplaying of violent video games can have several positive effects. The player can easily decompress from their personal daily stress. The players tend to release their anger and frustrations on the virtual enemy in the video games after having had a rough day instead of being aggressive or even hurting someone out of anger. The violent video games provide a good platform for the teenagers to make their anger escape by getting involved in the violent video games thus exercising their fantasy with anger, conflict, and aggression. This makes them develop a feeling of mastery that serves best to them as a necessary break or antidote from the daily anxiety. The player does not engage in physical play often and thus use the video games as a way or relaxation. The players may not necessarily be addicted to the video game playing but use it a means of entertainment. They mainly use the video games as a tool for decompressing themselves. According to a study carried out by pro.con organization the crime rate among the teenagers significantly reduced after sales of video games increased (Tear et al 25). This clearly shows that majority of the people are not addicted but more so use the video game as a way of comforting themselves when they go through tough moments. Games can be Alqallaf 1 a good passing time tool when the teenager is waiting for something in the next thirty minutes more so it is also a good practice to get occupied a short period especially a moment when you are full of anxiety. The teenagers also get to know new facts and their consequences. Strict monitoring should exercised in the ratings of video games more so in consideration to the age of the person. Through rating, the buyer can know the contents of the video games if it contains violence, sexual actions or drugs before purchasing the games from the video stores. The parents should also accompany their kids when they go to purchase the video games in a bid to ensure that the games are well rated and fit for their kids to play. The ratings will also enable the buyer to buy a game that meets their satisfaction and is suitable for a certain age gap (Paul and Willoughby 60). The video games store should ensure they do not have sale violent video games to minors who are below the age of 18. But this is not practiced evenly in the video games stores as the clerks do not check the appropriate age of the buyer before selling the violent video games to him or her. The minute client may not be that mature for the game he has being sold. Personal identification cards should be provided by the buyers before purchasing the violent video games. Works Cited Adachi,Paul J.C., and Teena Willoughby. The Effect Of Violent Video Games on Alqallaf 1 Aggression: Is It More Than Just The  Aggression & Violent Behavior 16.1 (2011): 55-62. Alqallaf 5 Alqallaf 6 Maddux, Clebrone D., and D. LaMont Johnson. The Need for A Research Focus on the Possible Causal Link Between Violent Behavior and  Computers In The Schools 30.1/2(2013) 1-3 Mihan Robert, Richard Nicki, Yvonne Anisimowicz. Safer with a partner: Exploring the emotional consequences of multiplayer video  Computers in Human Behavior 44.(2015):299-304 Saleem, Muniba, Craig A. Anderson, and Douglas A. Gentile. Effects Of Pro-social, Neutral, And Violent Video Games on College  Aggressive Behavior 38.4 (2012): 263-27 Tear, Morgan J., and Nielsen, Mark. Video Games and Prosocial Behavior: A Study of the Effects of Non-violent, violent and Ultra-violent Game  Computers in Human Behavior 41(2014):8-13