Caban Zavdiel E. Caban Professor Campbell ENC 1102.089 25 February 2017 1 A Rhetorical Analysis of Greenpeace Advertisements Energy is widely used around the world to make lives better and more enjoyable. The current methods of achieving this energy are primarily unclean and are linked as the main cause of climate change. The most common method are coal-fired plants which are being regulated to keep emissions low but still leads to climate change and the global increase of carbon dioxide. Many studies and researchers have confirmed these claims like Helgersen, who said that global emissions of greenhouse gases must be drastically reduced as soon as (Holgersen 512). Researchers, like Helgersen, have not only supported the claims but also supported the fact that we must reduce our global emissions soon, to stop climate change and global warming. To combat this, organizations such as Greenpeace are formed. Greenpeace is a non-governmental and non-profit organization that is dedicated in fighting for the environment and informing the public on climate change and pollution. They believe that fossil fuels should stay in the ground and companies should not use them because of the negative impacts to the environment. To support their claims, they provide a multitude of research articles that proves that what they are trying to achieve will make the world a cleaner place and signifies that their information is not a falsehood. Having all of this to share, Greenpeace uses advertisements that effectively convey their purpose and at the same time portray a miniature representation of what is reality. By using multiple appeals, the advertisements effectively convey and inform one of the messages Greenpeace is an advocator of, fossil fuels and other pollutants have a negative impact on climate and the environment. Caban 2 To begin with, the first advertisement effectively illustrates what is happening to forests and what the future might be like if it keeps going. The image is a half a beautiful and almost perfect forest and half a ruined landscape with factories being built. This use of half and half can appeal to the sense of logic because it signifies that we are not too far in and have time to correct it. It can also signify how divided nature is with humans because as humans we do not think that we are interconnected to nature which leads to its destruction. The beautiful forest can connect the audience emotionally because no one wants a beautiful forest to be destroyed and ruined. This is what Greenpeace is about and their main mission, as it is stated in their website, is to to save the planet has grown more serious the threat of global warming, destruction of ancient forests, deterioration of our oceans, and the threat of a nuclear disaster loom They care about what happens with the forest and are fighting with nature against these companies and factories. This battle is depicted in the middle of the image where there is a chessboard, in which humans are on one side and trees are on the other, indicating that humans and nature are in conflict. An article by the New York Times, about how china may not follow on a promise to convert 20% of its energy to renewable energy, validates that Greenpeace is in the fight with nature against the factories (Wong). This may be a reason why Greenpeace decided to place its name by the forest because they could have placed anywhere else. To include, next to their name it says that already made a but the downside is that it is small text. The purpose of this could have been to not distract from the picture and it may have seemed as redundant since the picture already illustrates it. Still this text has a kairotic appeal because it makes the audience feel as if they must partake in the fight which is the purpose of the advertisement, to direct the audience to their website. It also means that these companies have made a move against nature and now we must wait until nature plays back. Lastly, on the right Caban 3 side of the text, the name of the organization is at the bottom right giving credibility to image which proves that the image is truthful. Furthermore, the second advertisement informs the reader of how the time for polar bears is running out and that we need to act now to save them. Contrary to the last advertisement, the image in this one is filled with emotional appeal because it illustrates a polar bear family physically melting. This of course is not to be taken literally however it signifies the time that they have left before they become extinct. The lit wick that is melting the bears represents the pollution, mainly the greenhouse gases, that is melting the land that these bears live on. In an article by Greenpeace it was that 14,000 square kilometers of ice have been lost from 10 floating ice shelves in Antarctica over the last 50 Oceans in This evidence along with the image, show and prove that slowly the habitat of the polar bears is being destroyed and that their time here on Earth is running short. To make it even more dramatic, a black background was given and the fire gives it almost a spotlight effect on the center of the image. The reasoning behind this is to emotionally invest the viewer to start being aware of what is occurring outside and to get involved to stop this from happening, which is also an appeal to timeliness. It can may also be inferred that since the time is running out then it is possible that if the viewer has children, then they may never get to see a polar bear or hear about one. Additionally, since the polar bears are a family it makes it a little bit more relatable to those that have children because they might be able to place themselves in that scenario. It could be said that this effect would not have happened if it was only one bear or bears that are similar in size. In the same article as before, it was mentioned that because of the lack in resources bears are cannibalizing each other due to lack of Oceans in This show the extent of what these organisms are going through and what they need to do to survive making the Caban 4 picture even more melancholic if the viewer were presented with this fact. This, again, could be relatable because the parents will do whatever it takes to save their children and make sure that they can have a future. The last aspect of this picture is that the organization logo at the top right, gives it credibility making this picture valid. Clearly, one can see that Greenpeace effectively illustrates their message of that pollution does have a negative effect on climate and the environment. These images, by using several appeals, are used to get the viewer to be aware and possibly active in lowering pollution to save the planet. In getting the viewers involved in the fight against pollution then the goal of Greenpeace has been partially achieved, making the rest of their goal, the stopping of pollution, more achievable. In doing this Greenpeace has also gotten its supporters aware of the animal crises like the extinction of the polar bears shown in image 2. Greenpeace must keep fighting and influencing more people so that our future is cleaner and greener. Caban 5 Work cited  Greenpeace USA, http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/about/. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Holgersen, Stale, and Rikard Warlenius. Destroy What Destroys The Planet: Steering Creative Destruction In The Dual  Capital & Class 3, 2016, pp 511. Academic OneFile, doi: 10.1177/030981681666742. Accessed. 25 Jan. 2017. Keep It in the  Greenpeace USA, http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/global- warming/keep-it-in-the-ground/. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Oceans in and a Planet at Greenpeace USA, www.greenpeace.org/usa/research/polar-oceans-in-peril/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Wong, Edward. Pledged to Curb Coal Plants. Greenpeace Says Still Adding The New York Times, The New York Times, 13 July 2016, www.nytimes.com/2016/07/14/world/asia/china-coal-power-greenpeace.html?rref. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Caban 6 Image 1: Image 2: