Radliff 1 Haley Radliff Professor Campbell Composition 2 25 February 2017 The Connection Between Values and Their Advertisements Advertisements always have an agenda that the company or organization is trying to put out into the public. Advertisements are here to convince consumers to buy their product, support a political agenda, or to just put out a message. The goal of Ascend, formerly known as the National Abstinence Education is to teach abstinence in schools rather than a pregnancy-prevention-only program. In teaching abstinence, they believe that students will not engage in risky behaviors that will put them at risk i.e. sex. Ascend supports a program known as Sexual Risk Avoidance which an educational program based on the public health model of primary prevention to empower youth to avoid all the risks of sexual The advertisements Ascend creates fully support their goal as far as sex education for teens by using ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos to convey an alternative method of sex education. The first image is an infographic that includes a combination of facts and graphics that use statistics to support the claims made. When looking at the image the audience can see that 53% of teens do not have sex and that there is variety of reasons why kids choose not to have sex. The image also shows that 95% of sex education programs teach in a way that only promotes pregnancy prevention. The message that the stakeholder is trying to portray in the image is that students are choosing to abstain from sex, and that pregnancy is not the only reason why. When examining the font type used in this image we can see that Ascend is trying to highlight the sections talking about pregnancy by making the text mint in color as opposed to the Radliff 2 rest of the text in white. In examining the image, we can also see the rhetorical devices Ascend uses to convey their message. The stakeholder includes their logo in the bottom left corner of the image. By including their logo they are using ethos to establish credibility. The part of the image that is the most striking however, is the use of statistics to back up the claims. The claims that Ascend makes are that teens abstain from sex because they are afraid of and pregnancy. They also make the claim that teens abstain because of their personal values, and that they are waiting for a committed relationship. Looking at the statistics gives the audience a number to look at and really see how many kids agree with these statements. For example, the claim that 42% of students do not have sex because of personal values is significant because it is a large percentage of teens surveyed. The study that the information comes from is also cited at the bottom of the infographic, establishing ethos and pathos. This allows the audience to go and find the study if they choose to and verify the information to see if it actually supports the claims. Although the focus of the image is more so based around facts, pathos is still used by including graphics with the claims. The claim that 22% of teens do not have sex because of fear of has a sad face next to it. This graphic appeals to the emotions and allows them to feel for teens because not just teens that are afraid of getting an adults fear contracting as well. One article states that STD rates are at an all-time high with than 1.5 million cases of reported in 2015 (Sun). Kairos is also incorporated into this image by including the statement at the bottom of the image that says time to support healthy This is a call to action to the audience urging them to support teens by changing the way se education is taught in schools. The call to action is also at the bottom of the image in the center in all caps, leaving a lasting impression on the viewer. Radliff 3 The second image is also an infographic that shows what the people want versus what current policy is. The infographic shows two bodies that are split based off if people want high schoolers and middle schoolers to learn about all the risks that go along with having sex, or just pregnancy. For both the middle and high school figures the majority of people wanted them to learn about all the risks that go along with having sex. There is also a graph showing that 95% of federal funding goes toward programs that only focus on teen pregnancy. The overall message of this image is that people want students to learn about all the risks that go along with having sex and that the government is not taking this into account. In this image three different colored fonts are used based off the message that the text is trying to send. The black text is used when talking about what the people want, green is used for talking about teen pregnancy, and white is used when talking about federal funding. The use of different colored fonts shows the main points that the stakeholder is trying to make. Ascend not only uses the text to portray their message, but they also use the various rhetorical devices within the image. Ethos is established in this image the same way it was in the first image, and that is by including logo in the bottom corner. This image also cites the study that the information comes from allowing people to go and find the information for themselves rather than just believing that what the stakeholder says is automatically true or false. There is a stronger connection to pathos in this image because it uses claims that relate back to what the people want. This allows the audience to really connect with the claims because it says that this is what a group of people wants, rather than the stakeholder just trying to say what they want. In looking at the claims of what the people want it is clear that the majority of people want students to avoid all the risks that go along with having sex. Parents can look at the infographic and feel disheartened knowing that their kids are not being taught all the risks that go along with having sex. Logos comes across clear in this image with the Radliff 4 incorporation of the percentage of the amount of federal funding used towards pregnancy- prevention-only programs. 95% of funds are used towards this type of programming showing that the federal government has not looked at other options as far as sex education. One study found that this type of program is not effective for all teens because not all teens have sex or have the desire to have sex (Farb and Margolis 7). The kairos in this image has to do with the portion of the infographic that talks about current policy. In stating that current policy is flawed the stakeholder is creating a call to action, saying that these policies need to change so that all teens can benefit. Both images are infographics which is important to note because these advertisements are relying on logos as the main rhetorical device to support their message. This is notable because most organizations and schools denounce programs that preach abstinence. Also there is not a great deal of research out there on the benefits of abstinence programs compared to pregnancy- prevention-only programs. However, even though logos is the main rhetorical device used, there are logical fallacies in both images. The major logical fallacy that is included in both images is the straw man i.e. Ascend is oversimplifying the other methods of teaching sex education. Ascend is stating that pregnancy-prevention-only programs are the only alternative to their program. The stakeholder is saying that other programs are only focusing on pregnancy prevention rather than the other dangers that go along with having sex. However, the audience does not know details about other programs out there, which creates a weaker argument on the behalf. The advertisements created by Ascend send out a clear message to anyone looking at them. That message being that a change needs to be made as far as how we approach sex education in the United States. The main claim that both images make is that pregnancy- Radliff 5 prevention-only programs do not work. Ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos are located within both images and these rhetorical devices support what Ascend stands for. Both images have their similarities with their ethos and logos. Although both images include a logical fallacy, the overall message is supported in a way that really leaves an impact on the viewer. Radliff 6 Works Cited Ascend, http://weascend.org/about-us-2/. Accessed 30 January 2017. Farb, Amy and Amy Margolis. The Teen Pregnancy Prevention Program (2010-2015): Synthesis of Impact  American Journal of Public Health, vol. 106, 2016 pp. S9-S15. EBSCOhost, doi:10.2105/AJPH.2016.303367. Sun, Lena H. STD rates hit record high in U.S. as screening clinics  Washington Post 20 Oct. 2016. Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Radliff 7