Student 1 Student Dr. Gaspar ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Save Art, Save Childhood The curriculum that children follow during their early years is meticulously planned out to develop skills that are needed later in life. Young children are told to practice coloring inside the lines to develop fine motor skills or to solve puzzles to develop critical thinking. As students get older the focus of their studies leans towards conceptual learning and understanding in science classes or practicing the steps to solving a math problem. As children grow they become less and less exposed to art, which can negatively impact mental health the Arts and overall happiness because they do not have an outlet to release their stress (Lupien). The Museum of Modern Art in New York City has developed a technique to help students analyze art in a social context to help develop critical thinking and social skills As students grow older, the access to art as an outlet becomes harder to come by as their studies become more focused on STEM courses. A large contributor to theater and art classes being cut is the 2008 recession, which resulted in nationwide budget cuts (Ginn). Defunding art programs in schools needs to be stopped because so that students can develop critical thinking and social skills as well as reduce their stress. Many of the first activities that students do when they start school involves art. Preschool students and kindergarteners draw or paint or color with their peers to develop social skills necessary for bonding and making friends, which will help when the students work in groups later in life. These first formal introductions to art are also extremely beneficial in developing Student 2 fine motor skills that are necessary for writing, typing, and even driving. Developing fine motor skills as early as possible is critical because they can be predictors of whether a student will fall behind developmentally when compared to their peers (Rhattigan). For example, if a student does not learn the motor skills to unconsciously be able to hold a pencil and take notes, the student will fall behind in their classes because they will be concentrating on how to write and hold a pencil properly rather than on what they are writing down. As well as improving motor skills, art and art analysis can improve critical thinking skills and concentration. Active discussions through a method of facilitation called Visual Thinking Strategies, or VTS, has shown to be beneficial in reducing stress as well as a multitude of other disorders in mental health patients as well as children. This form of art analysis was developed at the Museum of Modern Art to engage the visitors and has been adapted to help individuals of all ages When a student is being presented with a piece of artwork, they create an idea of what is happening in the piece before them, then the student then shares it with the rest of the group and the other members are allowed to build upon that idea (Wadham). This practice allows students and patients to hone their critical thinking skills as well as social skills. The skills that are learned in conjunction to art can also be applied to other aspects of life. For example, fine motor skills are essential to functioning in society and allows the individual to be able to type, write, and eat. The development of critical thinking skills is extremely applicable to other areas other than art including how to analyze and support their claims with evidence when creating arguments and persuading others (Wadham). Through experiencing and talking about art, students will learn to explain themselves thoroughly and accurately, while interacting with their peers to build conclusions about the subject that is presented. This interaction with other peers allows students to build social skills that is deemed necessary in society to function. Student 3 They learn to explain their viewpoints in a respectful and accurate way, as well as learning to sit and listen when another one of their peers is speaking (Housen). Since the recession in 2008 arts have been defunded to the point that there are schools that no longer offer art as a resource for students (Dickinson). Over 19 states have lowered the amount of money available for school districts to spend on their schools (Ginn). Art programs are often the first ones to be cut because school boards see theater and painting and ceramics as a not having as much potential to make the district more money. Other programs, such as sports do not typically lose funding because they are seen as an identifier of the community (Dickinson). Communities rally together to support a high school football team, but will not come together to support a student art exhibition or a play put on by students. Because of this, the arts do not bring as much money into the district and is seen as not as successful, which is why art programs are often defunded first (Ginn). One way to potentially help is for schools to have art fairs and display artwork to the communities or to have more plays and musicals and sell tickets to raise money. Art programs are also defunded first because they are typically not seen as important as science, technology, engineering, and math classes, or STEM, because when a student focuses on one of those subjects later in life, it usually leads them to take a respected job. Artists are usually not seen as possessing a respected job unless they are extremely successful, which is a contributing factor to why art is one of the first programs to be defunded. Art however, can help students with their STEM courses. In engineering and science classes, art can help the student visualize the scenario and help them work out the answer. Art and technology go hand in hand because there are so many forms of art and sculpture that include technologic aspects, such as wheels turning and electricity. Art and STEM courses are seen as two different fields that are in Student 4 no way connected, but it is actually the opposite. To be a successful artist, the individual has to have a good understanding of the science behind the piece that they are working on. It is also the same with students. When they work on an art project, they are discovering the science behind it and when they are working on a science project, art can easily be incorporated to help develop a deeper understanding. Defunding art programs reduces exposure to experiences that develop essential skills which can range from being precursors to fluid movements or developing confidence. Exposure to art is also essential in developing social skills. Students interact with each other to analyze art and draw conclusions as well as work together to develop art. This early exposure is essential to showing children the proper and socially accepted ways to interact with others. Americans for the Arts Action Fund is an organization that promotes keeping the arts from being defunded in schools by raising money and campaigning for individuals running for government offices that promote the importance of art exposure. This organization has the backing of dozens of senators and representatives who are always accepting help from members of the public that are equally passionate about this cause and want to get involved. This organization and others that stand with it, understand the stakes of children not being exposed to art. They understand that saving art is also saving childhood. (WC: 1243) Student 5 Works Cited About  Visual Thinking Strategies. Joel Smith Media, n.d. Web. 29 Apr. 2017. Dickinson, Dave. Fine Arts Should Be Spared From School Budget  National Federation of State High School Associations. National Federation of State High School Associations, 13 Oct. 2015. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Ginn, Jennifer. Why Johnny Ride the Bus Schools Struggle with Cuts as State Revenues Continue to  Education Budget Cuts. Counsel of State Governments, n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Housen, Abigail, and Philip Yenawine. Guide to museum  New York: Visual Understanding in Education (2001). Lupien, Sonia J., et al. Cortisol levels during human aging predict hippocampal atrophy and memory  Nature neuroscience 1.1 (1998): 69-73. Rhattigan, Michael. The Benefits of Coloring and  Scholastic.com. Scholastic Inc., 15 Jan. 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Wadham, Rachel1. Visual Thinking Strategies: Using Art to Deepen Learning across School  Library Journal, vol. 138, no. 17, 15 Oct. 2013, p. 109. Why the Arts  Why the Arts Matter Americans for the Arts Action Fund. Americans for the Arts, n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017.