Newbold 1 Lexi Newbold Mariama Changamire ENC 1102 14 April 2017 The Homework Debate is a word that students sometimes dread hearing. Most do not like doing it and teachers do not always like grading it, but there is no avoiding it in school systems. Homework is assigned on a daily basis and, depending on what level of schooling a student is in, he or she could end up with hours of it each night. From the kindergartners just starting school to the seniors ready to be finished, homework assignments are to be expected, especially in the United States; but why is this the default setting? Educators conform to this pattern of ensuring all students have an assignment to do outside of the classroom because of the idea that homework will help their students pass the tests and therefore pass the class. There is some debate, however, about whether or not homework is actually helping students or hindering their education. Homework should be optional for high school students in order to reduce the negative physical and mental effects students experience like stress, anxiety, and lack of sleep caused by excessive amounts. Students with a more positive mentality towards school tend to achieve more. Research proves that instruction and responses to class student (Carr 169); so when students enjoy the learning process and are enthusiastic about what they learn in a given day, it can have an effect on their success in a class. Many students, however, have a more negative mentality towards school because they do not enjoy doing the homework that their American school provides. Some students find it difficult to cope with Newbold 2 having limited time for social interactions among other things. denies access to leisure time and community activities that can teach important lessons, both academic and which are critical for a personal development (Cooper 146). When homework is assigned with purpose, it can be used as a tool that facilitates student academic achievement. Without the proper intent, it can have negative effects on the students themselves and on their academic achievement (Cooper 146). If the students are able to choose what they spend more time focusing on, not only will it help them better understand what subjects are more difficult for them to learn or understand, but it may help them experience more of an individualized education. To a certain degree, homework should not intrude on free time to spend with family, eat nutritional meals, play outside with friends, or get a good night sleep (Cooper 147; Kohn 10). Busy work for the sake of work is not an effective teaching strategy. One of the most prominent homework researchers, Harris M. Cooper, conducted a analysis encompassing research involving thousands of and based on the data, he holds there is correlation between homework and test scores at the elementary (151). He also claims that students will grow bored with academic material they are forced to spend too much time with which implies that long, tedious homework assignments are not improving academic achievement (146). Alfie Kohn, the author of 14 books, adapted an article from one of his books entitled The Homework Myth: Why Our Kids Get Too Much of a Bad Thing. He tried to understand what the effects of homework actually were. If a plausible argument can be advanced that homework might have positive effects, just such an argument could also be made that it probably say nothing of the stress, lost time for other activities, family conflict, and other potential disadvantages. Homework should not be assigned (certainly not as the Newbold 3 default condition) unless there are good data to demonstrate its value for most students. But those data exist. (Kohn 13) His conclusion was that while there is no unanimity among experts, homework is still assigned on the basis that it is beneficial even though there is no decisive conclusion. In an interview, Kohn explained that in and schools where little or no homework is assigned, results have been extremely positive in terms of academic performance as well as their attitudes about (Winsor) and that he is against unnecessarily assigned homework. The United States consistently ranks low in education even through pro-homework eras that were driven by political concerns for future (Keith 188). education system constantly ranks at the very top. In the documentary The Finland Phenomenon, Dr. Tony Wagner explores how education system differs from the United The students there barely have homework and are rarely tested. Instead, the system puts a lot of trust in its teachers and allow its students to choose either an academic or vocational education route. They are doing this kind of high level education for every single student in the country, which Dr. Wagner believes is the real Finland phenomenon. Their system is one of the best in the world, so the United States could attempt to recreate that phenomenon here. While the United States is a land of opportunity, it does not rank at the top in education. If we could see academic improvement statewide and then nationwide, the education system in the United States may be ranked higher and produce students that would be capable of making real change in the world and for the future. In a study conducted by researcher Mollie Galloway, high school students from ten high- performing high schools were surveyed about their homework habits. They were also asked about the amount of time they spend on homework each night along with how much time they Newbold 4 have for other non-academic activities crucial to adolescent development like spending time with their family and friends. They were then questioned about the stress they experience or have experienced and asked what they think the causes for their stress were. A majority of students reported that homework is the primary source of their stress (Galloway 499). Other students also reported that getting good grades, parent expectations, and the college process as being primary stressors (Galloway 501. This supports the idea that students are under enough stress as it is and homework is not helping them in this matter. Finally, one of the stressors that can lead students who are more vulnerable to emotional distress to self-harm is excessive amounts of school work and trying to successfully manage massive homework loads (Selekman 50). Parents sometimes pressure their children to perform as well as possible academically which can cause even more anxiety about school than already experienced by the student. Students are coping with the stress of being pushed too hard by self- harming, developing eating disorders, or turning to substance abuse (Selekman 51). While education is important, educators believe the well-being of their students comes before anything else. If students are not safe or healthy, they are not going to care about the causes of the Vietnam War and teachers are not going to care about teaching them the causes. They are going to make sure they are alright first, as every teacher should. Homework should be optional for high school students because the students who understand material will not waste extra time and extra energy on something that is not helping further their education. It can be harmful to health to be overloaded with tedious assignments because too much homework can be the cause of stress and anxiety (Kohn 11). At the same time, the students who need extra help will receive it through homework as well as gain additional one-on-one time with their teachers. Teachers be as busy grading so much Newbold 5 homework and will have more time to help students in need. The PTA tends to act as a voice for many students. Donate or join a local PTA to support their efforts in facilitating student success. Spread the word about this problem on social media by using the hashtag #SUPPORTOURSTUDENTS. Help support our students if for no other reason but this: homework should never be the reason a student self-harms. Newbold 6 Works Cited Carr, Nicole Schrat. Increasing the Effectiveness of Homework for All Learners in the Inclusive  School Community Journal, vol. 23, no. 1, 2013, pp. 169-182. Cooper, Harris M., and Jeffrey C. Valentine. Using Research to Answer Practical Questions About  Educational Psychologist, vol. 36, no. 3, 2001, pp. 143-153. Galloway, Mollie, et al. Nonacademic Effects of Homework in Privileged, High-Performing High  Journal of Experimental Education, vol. 81, no. 4, 01 Jan. 2013, pp. 490- 510. Kohn, Alfie. Abusing Research: The Study of Homework and Other  Phi Delta Kappan, vol. 88, no. 1, 2006, pp. 8-22. Selekman, Matthew D. Helping Self-Harming  Educational Leadership, vol. 67, no. 4, 01 Dec. 2009, pp. 48-53. Winsor, Morgan. Amid Growing Debate About Homework, One School Bans  ABC News. ABC News Network, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://abcnews.go.com/US/amid-growing-debate-homework-school- bans/story?id=41843594>. The Finland Phenomenon. Directed by Sean Faust. New School Films, 2011. (1322)