Kelsey Lay Lay 1 Instructor: Emil Smith Composition 1101/002 April 30, 2017 Dangers of Adderall Adderall is a combination of amphetamine and dextroamphetamine which are central nervous system stimulants that affect chemicals in the brain and nerves that contribute to hyperactivity and impulse control. Psychiatrists prescribe this drug to treat people with Attention Deficit Disorder with or without hyperactivity (ADHD or ADD). These conditions make a person either unable to focus or unable to control their impulses. It is prescribed to over 2.5 million people in the United States each year. As this may be an alarming number of people who use Adderall, the number of people who use Adderall and do not need it is alarmingly higher. The most common abusers are college students. Students who are prescribed Adderall can make a profit by selling their unused drugs to other college students who have not been diagnosed with ADD or ADHD. College students especially around final exam time seek these pills to help them study and pull all-nighters to get end of the year projects done. Other students who are normally shy want to use the pills because they feel they make them more talkative and likeable amongst their fellow students. These students do not feel they are doing anything wrong taking these pills and feel invincible against any potential harm. The truth is nonprescribed medical Adderall use by college students is both dangerous and addictive. Admittedly, the use of Adderall has been known to help students focus when studying for finals or completing other schoolwork. Most college students who take Adderall without a prescription argue that they are not doing anything wrong and that the drugs are harmless. A study was done by the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) in 2007, 175 Lay 2 undergraduate students (94 males, 81 females, 13 non-Caucasian) in a large, public southeastern urban United States research university determined that most students believed the use of Adderall was both physically harmless and morally acceptable. Students believe that Adderall is a study drug which will help them focus and be more attentive to their schoolwork. They argue there is no harm in taking the drug if they only take it occasionally to help them with studying and testing. Adderall is believed to be a study enhancer, an educational beneficial stimulant. Students believe these stimulants will help them study but are of no risk to their health since they are federally regulated. E.A. Kolek stated in his article, prescription drug use among college students are under the impression that since ADHD stimulants are produced, regulated, and prescribed by the medical community, the drugs are not potentially addictive and harmful for their (529) They may be federally regulated but that does not mean that they are harmless to students without a prescription. These drugs like other prescriptions are produced, regulated, and prescribed to students who have an illness that warrants the use of the drug. Many may not believe this stimulant is harmful if used occasionally but Adderall has been shown to not only to be dangerous to college students but highly addictive. As the number of college students using nonprescribed Adderall continues to rise so do the risks associated with taking the drug illegally. In the last 10 years, the use of nonprescribed Adderall has risen from 12 million persons to 21 million persons. Various studies have been conducted on college campuses and the abuse rate ranges from 7% to 33% among these students. Per Larry Kroutil in Use of Prescription Stimulants in the United 18-25 years old, in which this age group was 10 times more likely than any other age group to misuse Adderall (137-138). Researcher have found that the characteristics of the users who are using the stimulant without a Lay 3 prescription tend to be male, white, middle to high income families, members of fraternities or sororities, and students with a grade point average of a B or lower. This trend increases the danger of Adderall since many students are taking the drug not only as a study drug but as a drug to heighten effects of alcohol and create a high or euphoria. Between 2005 and 2010 emergency room visits from the effects of nonprescribed Adderall tripled from 5,212 reported cases in the United States to 15,585 reported cases. Those involving adverse reactions has grown from 5,085 visits to 9,181 visits. This causes great concern for the Drug Administration and medical professionals. The medical risks associated with taking Adderall without a prescription are very alarming. The use of this stimulant has been reported to cause central nervous system adverse effects, circulatory and respiratory system effects, digestive system effects and skin issues. The central nervous system is affected because the stimulant speeds up the bodily process. This speed up can cause symptoms such as nervousness, headaches, moodiness, fever, weakness in limbs, swelling of tongue, and in severe cases hallucinations, paranoia and thought problems. The speed up of the nervous system also causes problems with the circulatory and respiratory system. The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration says, in Department Visits Involving Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Stimulant says the most common problems associated with taking nonprescribed medical Adderall are problems such as hypertension, irregular heartbeat and sudden cardiac Other reactions can be numbness in the limbs, shortness of breath, fainting, heart attacks and stroke. Adderall affects the digestive system by increasing the amount of glucose released in the system. This may cause stomach pain, diarrhea, vomiting, loss of appetite and weight loss. Adderall may Lay 4 also cause a person to develop skin issues such as hives, rashes, and blisters. The stimulant might seem harmless to the college student but the risks are numerous and should not be ignored. Another serious risk of Adderall is mixing the drug with alcohol to create a high that students have compared to a cocaine high. When students take a stimulant with alcohol the drug dulls the symptoms of being drug which leads to a high risk of alcohol poisoning. Dr. Marc J. Romano. Assistant medical director at Ocean Breeze Recovery in Pompano Beach, Florida, states in Elaine Uses, Abuses & Side that college students drink more alcohol when taking Adderall, which can result in serious impairment including alcohol Alcohol poisoning can cause death. Mixing also creates a high risk of heart problems, increase in body temperature, increased heart rate, irregular heartbeat, and increase blood pressure. These can lead to heart attacks and sudden death. Lastly, alcohol and Adderall can cause behavioral issues such as aggressive behavior. This can a lead a person to do something that they may not normally do that may land them in jail. The high someone might feel from mixing alcohol and Adderall does not outweigh the risks associated. Lastly, the nonprescribed medical use of Adderall can lead to drug addiction. The National Drug Administration has categorized Adderall as a schedule II drug. is considered a schedule II controlled substance because of its strong addictive (Kroutil 141) The drug has a currently accepted medical use with severe restrictions. Abuse of this drug may lead to severe psychological or physical dependence. The use of Adderall increases the levels of dopamine levels in the brain. Dopamine is a neurotransmitter that helps control the reward and pleasure system. This chemical tends to create a euphoria in the abuser that increases the chances of a chemical dependence thus leading to addiction. Elaine Hom, in Uses, Abuses, & Side quotes Maria Pino, a toxicologist and course director for pharmacology Lay 5 at Touro College of Osteopathic Medicine in New York, saying taken as prescribed by a physician, there is little risk of addiction but if taken recreationally for the effect, the risk of abuse will be The brain becomes dependent on Adderall to stimulate alertness and to create a high feeling. These feelings of euphoria and high feeling can lead to a dangerous drug addiction. Drug addiction is a chronic disease and over time causes the brain to change and challenges a self-control and interferes with their ability to resist a drug and the feeling they get from taking the drug. The addict seeks and takes the drug without concern for the possible harmful consequences. A drug addiction can cause serious medical issues, social issues, and issues with the law. In 2001 in survey done by the National Drug Administration in 2001 an estimated 13% of past-year misusers of the drug were classified as meeting the criteria for stimulant dependence or abuse. (Kroutil 141) Adderall is a drug that is highly addictive and should not be used unless medically prescribed by a professional. As the nonprescribed medical use of Adderall continues to increase among college students so do the dangers and possible addiction associated with this schedule II drug. Students may believe that the drug is harmless to take as a study aid since the drug is federally regulated, but scientific research shows that this is far from the truth. There are severe medical and psychological risks associated with the abuse of Adderall. Students need to be educated on the risks of taking the so called The nonprescribed medical use of Adderall by college students has proven to be very dangerous to health and highly addictive. Adderall should never be taken without a thorough examination and prescription from a licensed professional. Lay 6 Works Cited Aberg, Simon Essig. Study  abuse by college students: What you need to  2016. National Center for Health Research. Web. 23 January 2017. Fenton, Ann P., and John M. Wunderlich. Mental doping: the untold story of modern law school  Student Lawyer 2010: 16. Academic OneFile. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Gomes, Jennifer, Tammy Song, Lynn Goodwin, and Paul J. Toriello. Stimulant Abuse on University Journal of Human Behavior in the Social Environment 21.7 (2011): 822-33. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Goodman, John. Enhancement, Cheating, and Kennedy Institute of Ethics Journal. 2012(2010): 145. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Hom, Elaine. Uses, Abuses & Side 26 March 2016. LiveScience. Web. 23 April 2017. Kolek, E.A. prescription drug use among college NASPA Journal 46 (2009): 519-539. Web 4 April 2017. Kroutil, Larry A., et al. Nonmedical Use of Prescription Stimulants in The United  Drug and Alcohol Dependence 84 (2006): 135-143. ScienceDirect. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Nauert, Rick, PhD. Use of ADHD Meds as Study  2 May 2014. PsychCentral. Web. 23 January 2017. Lay 7 Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, editor. Department Visits Involving Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Stimulant The Dawn Report, 24 Jan. 2013, http:/archive.samsha.gov. Accessed 31 Mar. 2017.