!1 Rishi Gusam Harley Campbell ENC 1102 02/27/17 Ethics with poaching The use of pictures has always been an effective way to convey an idea or belief relating to that idea. Poaching has become a major issue in the 21st century, resulting in various species becoming endangered or extinct. Majority of the population is against poaching, with only a few who support this industry. The World Wide Fund for nature (WWF), is an organization, that promotes the conservation of animals, implementing solutions that benefit animals and the ecosystem that they live in. Being an organization that supports animal conservation, they are strongly against poaching, and are taking the actions to prevent it, by working with smaller organizations. They employ various means of promoting their beliefs, especially through picture advertisements. Image 1 is a rhino being captured by poachers, and image 2 is a fake tiger in a grassland, being watched by two people in a jeep. Although the images may seem simple, they reveal the depth of the poaching industry and the possible consequences of it. With the use of Ethos, Pathos, Logos, and Kairos, the WWF is able to convey their beliefs and ideas to the general public. The stakeholder is the World Wide Fund for nature, an organization developed in 1961 in Morges, Switzerland , by a group of wildlife conservationists. Throughout their history as an organization, they have worked on various projects, all revolving around conservation. Since !2 an organization, composed by wildlife conservationists and enthusiasts, they are against the poaching industry, and disagree with claims that support that industry. Their mission statement is, to stop the degradation of the natural environment and to build a future in which humans live in harmony with which further illustrates their position. They work with various smaller conservation groups, offering professional and financial support, to further their impact on conservation. Image 1 is composed of a large rhino, being captured by a group of men. Inside of the rhino is a picture process of the poaching industry, which illustrates the process of it. The most notable characteristic of the image is the size of the rhino in comparison to the poachers. The poachers are able to subdue the rhino, undeterred by the size on strength of the rhino. It shows that the size and strength of the rhino enough to protect it, and that it requires human intervention to protect it. The next notable characteristic is the horn is being cut off by two people. Pathos is used since the audience will sympathize towards the rhino, since its clearly the victim in this image. It also educates the audience, showing that poachers are only killing them for the horns, rather than for the meat. The rhino has various different people inside of it. Its separated by different chambers, with a different interaction occurring within each chamber. Each of these interactions represents a different part of the poaching industry, shown together as one. It informs the audience of the behind scenes of poaching, aspects that the media generally does not highlight. The WWF wants its audience to realize that poachers are a result of demand, and that the only way to eliminate poaching is to destroy demand. The WWF uses pathos, making the poaching industry look absolutely terrible and immoral industry. In fact, 2008 poachers have killed at least 5,940 !3 African the which is a number thats on the rise. There is a huge market in southeast Asia for rhino horns, due to benefits from the horns the The pain and anguish expressed by the rhino, is used to gain sympathy from the general public. The WWF uses the sympathy from the audience to gain support from them, so that they can pressure for action against poaching. The use of pathos, helps promote the WWF side on this argument. Another visual aspect of this image is the background, being a dead savannah plain. Supporters logically think about how the absence of animals will affect the ecosystem. It shows the future of the African natural landscape, and that without action, that will be the future of it. The dark colors can represent how dark the industry is, giving the image a somber look. WWF uses kairos to appeal to the general public, by making the people think about the future if they ignore poaching. Urgency is pushed in this image, since the rhino is still alive. Although it is greatly injured, it is still alive, illustrating the point that there is still time to support, but not much. Image 2 is composed of a fake tiger in a grassland plain, with two people in a jeep watching it. The obvious visual rhetoric in this image is the fake tiger. WWF uses pathos and kairos to help promote their views. It makes the audience look back to a time when they experienced viewing a tiger. The fake tiger serves as a wakeup call, implementing kairos, to make the audience act urgently, and support the WWF. It helps create a more immediate response from supporters, giving a sense that there is limited time to act, and to act soon before too late. With the absence of real tiger, resulting in fake tigers, it makes people feel nostalgic that they be able to relive that experience or at least share it with a loved one. !4 Another visual rhetoric is the background. Similar to the first image, the background is empty, with no activity and life. odd to see little evidence of life in an African plain, since it is known for its vast biodiversity. It serve as an indicator of the future, which validates and supports the WWFs beliefs. WWF employs logos, since it makes the audience think that it is logical to preserve animals. There are two people standing on a jeep in the background, who appear to be looking at the tiger. This could represent the general population, realizing the outcome of their absence of support and action. It can make the audience feel a sense of guilt, realizing that there was something they could have done, but chose not to, only realizing their mistake when it is too late. WWF uses Ethos, to make the audience think about how morally wrong poaching is, and that they need to support the WWF. The lone tree represents the indirect effects on poaching, on things that directly affected by it. With the absence of animals, an integral part of the ecosystem, different aspects of an ecosystem will fall as well. The absence of biodiversity, will result in the ecosystem failing (exit stage right). The lone tree also serves as an image of the future, if action against poaching is not done. The color is brighter than the background. It represents how contrasting the fake tiger is to its environment, and that it will never replace the real deal. WWF uses that to make their audience realize how undesirable the outcome will be if no action is taken. Both images for the most part, used the same aspects to convey the WWF viewpoint. Image 1 used the victimization of the rhino, to display the helplessness of animals, and that human action must be done. Image 2 used the fake tiger to strike emotion in the audience, making the audience feel nostalgic about their experience with animals. Both images rely on the !5 audience feeling emotional towards their viewpoint. With these images, it further supports the WWF viewpoints, that poaching must be stopped. !6 Works cited  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, www.worldwildlife.org/initiatives/wildlife-conservation. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. Poaching  Save the Rhino International, Web. 28 Feb. 2017, www.savetherhino.org/ Accessed 28 Feb 2017 The Impact of Wildlife Extinction and the Importance of  Exit Stage Right. N.p., 08 Oct. 2007. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Image 1 Image 2