Ragoobar 1 Selena Ragoobar L.E. (Lisa) DuBois ENC 1102 24 February 2017 Project 2 Final Draft founded in 1940, is the largest fast-food chain in the world and in the United States. They state, proud of everything we do. And dedicated to doing more. Evolving alongside our customers. Building memories that last a lifetime. And goodwill that lasts Corporate). They believe that food should be good, inexpensive, and fast. stake in the topic of obesity is that they are trying to provide healthier food by setting goals, as stated reduce salt/ sodium, sugar, saturated fat, or calories across the menu as well as serve 100% more fruit, vegetables, low-fat dairy or whole grains by Corporate). has a long reputation of being an unhealthy fast food restaurant, however is taking steps towards making a change in the healthy direction by using advertisements such as image A where they are advertising pathos and their credibility with good quality food and image B where they are advertising facts about how they make their food. In an advertisement by (Image A) posted on Visual News website displays a man holding a cheeseburger up to his mouth with a huge smile on his face. The goal of this image is to persuade the viewer to want to consume a cheeseburger, which is the advertised item. In image A, is using an emotional appeal to persuade the audience by displaying a commonly held emotion. The audience can make an easy assumption Ragoobar 2 that the man is happy because of the cheese burger he is holding and in turn will be persuaded to believe if they purchase a cheeseburger they will feel the same happiness as the man displayed in the image. In this image effectively used emotional appeals to persuade their audience to want to buy their food. also uses credibility in this advertisement by stating on the bottom of the image of the cheeseburger in big bold letters is followed in smaller letters that they are it with ground beef 100% pure and leaner than most beef you buy at the it with fish U.S. government it with potatoes that are U.S. (Visual News). In image A, the fact that this is a advertisement from the company makes this image credible since is the number one fast food franchise in the world. In these sentences is giving facts about what ingredients they use in their food, this persuades the audience to believe that is using the best ingredients to make their food which makes them credible for having trustworthy food. Stated lastly at the bottom of the image is the statement, do it all for this persuades the audience that is a company that cares about their customers and that they will get the best ingredients to satisfy the demands of their consumers. At the bottom left of the image is the iconic big yellow arches made to represent the famouse big yellow logo, this make the image credible since at the time of the 1976 was known to care about their customers, a year before this advertisement was published opened their first drive thru in Arizona since near Fort Huachuca, were forbidden to get out of their cars in army fatigues. solved the problem by installing a drive Corporate). In doing this considerate gesture the public viewed as patriotic. This Ragoobar 3 goal was to establish credibility as a company who cares about their customers and troops and effectively used emotional appeals to persuade their audience to want to buy their food. In another advertisement by (Image B) posted on The Huffington Post website displays a visual on a Chicken McNugget is which is stated on the top of the image in bold letters. This goal was to persuade the viewer to believe that is taking a step in the healthier direction by having their famous Chicken McNuggets made with 100% white chicken meat. The image displays a visual step-by-step process of making their Chicken McNuggets using logical appeals by describing the facts about what is in chicken McNuggets, such as the ingredients and the process. In the image the process starts by choosing the type of chicken cuts, grounding the meat, how they marinade the chicken, how the tempura batter is made for the nuggets to be dipped and fried and lastly how flash freezes to be shipped to locations. effectively uses logical appeals by providing facts about what ingredients they use to convince their audience that they have nothing to hide when it comes to the process used when making their food. also use their credibility in image B to persuade their audience to trust them. On the upper left side of the advertisement states, chose our cuts from the tenderloin breast rib to make a tender and tasty following displays an illustration of a chicken with dotted lines dividing it into sections displaying what sections of the chicken they use to make their all white meat Chicken McNuggets and to the left a picture of real Chicken McNuggets that you would buy at the restaurant, used this to show where their Ragoobar 4 white meat chicken come from. At the top right of the image a white meat chicken logo with a chicken in the center of a circle is displayed, since is using certified white meat chicken logo this is used to for the image to look credible. Also displayed at the bottom of the image is a red delivery truck on a path on way to a large sign. This can be used to display that as a company is aspiring to serve healthier food to their customers. This goal was to establish credibility as a company who cares about their customers and inform them of the process and ingredients used to make all white meat chicken McNuggets. throughout the years have mastered the skill of persuading their audience to indulge in their food in their effective use of advertisement. They use emotion, credibility, as well logic to convince their viewers that they are producing high quality food. The use of these appeals have benefited sales greatly as well. is taking steps towards making a change in the healthy direction by using advertisements such as image A where they are advertising pathos and their credibility with good quality food and image B where they are advertising facts about how they make their food. These two images are great examples of how has executed the use of these rhetorical appeals. Ragoobar 5 Works Cited Almendrala, Anna. A Big Change Is Coming To Chicken  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 29 Apr. 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Hauben, Steven . McDonalds and Burger King Targeting African American Consumers in the  Visual News. Visual News, 07 Feb. 2012. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Ambition & Corporate Mission - ::  Ambition & Corporate Mission - :: 2010-2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Action, MA: XanEdu. E-text. Ragoobar 6