Karabeyoglu 1 Nadir Karabeyoglu Professor Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 30 April 2017 A Minimum Wage Increase In The United States The debate over minimum wage is a multi-faceted human rights issue that impacts the lives of millions of Americans. Even though the minimum wage varies by state, the minimum set by the U.S. federal government is currently $7.25 per hour (U.S. Department of Labor 1). This means that there are three million minimum wage workers in the United States who earn $15,080 per year, which is well below the federal poverty line of $19,790 making it a human rights issue (U.S. Department of Labor 1). Many Americans feel this is unacceptable and believe the minimum wage should be a living wage. However, those who oppose the minimum wage assert that a federal increase results in increased prices, job loss, and reduces the incentive for workers to get an education and move up in a company. The debate surrounding the minimum wage is complex but livable wages should be the goal in a country as wealthy as the United States. Therefore, it is the responsibility of American voters and taxpayers to become educated about this issue, engage in the debate, and become empowered to actively support an increase in the minimum wage. It is necessary to become educated about both sides of the argument in the minimum wage debate in order to understand how the stereotypical view of the minimum wage worker contributes to poverty wages in the United States. Without education and information about this issue, you may fall victim to persuasion or misinformation. Many people mistakenly think a minimum wage worker is a teenager who works part-time and lives with their parents and is Karabeyoglu 2 trying to earn extra spending money. However, the reality is the average age of a minimum wage worker is 35 years old and 28 percent of minimum wage workers have children to support and earn half of their total income (U.S. Department of Labor 2). The stereotypical view of a minimum wage worker is simply not accurate. It is also necessary to understand that when jobs do not pay enough, workers rely on public assistance to meet their basic needs of living expenses, food, and healthcare. This impacts all tax paying citizens. In fact, collectively spent $25 billion annually between 2009 and 2011 to fund public assistance health programs and provide cash assistance to working (Jacobs, Perry, & MacGillvary). This quote highlights how costly it is for all taxpayers when businesses do not pay their workers livable wages. This aspect of the debate is often unknown even though taxpayers are bearing the burden of low-wages while corporations evade paying their workers a living wage. A common argument against raising the minimum wage is subsequent job loss. However, research from the Political Economy Research Institute analyzes sales and job growth in the fast- food industry and states, wage increases can be implemented repeatedly without generating large-scale employment losses among low-wage (Pollin & Wicks-Lim 737). Threats of job loss keep people afraid of increasing the minimum wage but these threats are often more exaggerated than what reality shows. For instance, the fast-food industry has a high concentration of low-wage workers and research of this industry shows the fast-food industry, adjust to a $15 federal minimum wage without generating employment (Pollin & Wicks-Lim 720). While $15 may seem like too large an increase, it is only $28,800 per year before taxes and this is barely a livable wage in the majority of U.S. cities. It should also be mentioned that a common argument against an increase in the minimum wage is its impact on small business. However, paying more than the minimum wage prevents turnover, which is Karabeyoglu 3 costly for business owners and attracts workers with a positive attitude who impact whether or not consumers come back (Pofeldt). A gradual but steady increase to the minimum wage like what has occurred in Seattle and in California could help small business owners adjust to paying livable wages to their workers. Regardless of whether a business is big or small, the American people need to care about this issue and actively engage in the debate. All Americans should care about this issue because the minimum wage debate highlights an expertly hidden human rights issue in America. One does not need to be a minimum wage worker to understand the importance of this issue. The minimum wage debate is an ethical issue that highlights the need for fairness and social justice not only for the millions of Americans earning the minimum wage, but the rest of Americans who are dependent on them. When workers are paid livable wages they are less likely to quit, provide better service to customers, and boost the economy (Bazzinotti 4). While the opposing side states that an increase of the minimum wage would damage the economy, research shows that increasing the minimum wage gives workers more purchasing power to contribute to the economy (Pollin & Wicks-Lim 717). When minimum wage workers earn more, they spend more and also reduce the tax burden on fellow citizens. Another important consideration is the government does not take inflation into account when determining the minimum wage; the current minimum wage is insufficient to cover the costs of shelter, clothing, and food (Bazzinotti 24). The reality is the minimum wage worker cannot provide the basics for their family despite working full-time. In fact, many believe the minimum age should be changed to to highlight the disparity between the two. However, two main roadblocks that work against increasing the minimum wage include opposition from the business community and lack of political support (Bazzinotti 26). Karabeyoglu 4 Therefore, becoming engaged in this issue is insufficient; becoming empowered to take action is necessary. It is the responsibility of U.S. citizens to register to vote, become informed on the issues, and vote their conscience. In fact, it is the cornerstone of democracy and the lives of the American people are dependent on it. Therefore, all Americans should register to vote at the age of 18 years old and can do so easily online. Next, it is important to vote at the local, state, and federal levels since there is variability in the minimum wage among the states. In addition, participating in social activism is not only a freedom, but also a responsibility. Social activism has led to increased equality and social justice for millions of Americans. Partaking in the minimum wage debate is necessary since it is a way to challenge the wage inequality that currently exists in America. In fact, social activism advocating for an increase in the minimum wage has spread throughout the United States. One notable organization called 15NOW has been successful in securing laws requiring $15 an hour for all workers in Seattle, California, New York, and Washington D.C. (CNN.com). 15NOW includes a network of social activists who have local chapters throughout the country in all 50 states who advocate for a living wage and want to empower working people by activating them into a fighting movement (15NOW.org). The organization 15NOW is based on the belief that 1% of the population dominates the economic power and fighting to increase the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour is a way to challenge the unequal wealth distribution in the United States (15NOW.org). In fact, there is a local chapter in Tampa, Florida where people can support this movement and minimum wage workers. In addition, people can choose to support businesses that pay their workers a living wage. An organization called, for a Fair Minimum support a fair minimum wage and consumers can choose to spend their money at places Karabeyoglu 5 that support this issue and boycott those business that do not. Joining a movement such as 15NOW empowers people to make their voices heard and influence politicians to make the necessary increase of the minimum wage so that it is a livable wage for millions of Americans across the country. Being informed consumers is another non-political but significant way to make your voice heard. In conclusion, one of the most critical current issues in the United States is the minimum wage debate. This debate highlights more than a focus on dollars and cents, it demonstrates the wage inequality that exists in the United States and the need for livable wages so that people who are working full-time are able to afford food, shelter, and clothing at a minimum. This inequality not only leads to increased taxes to supplement low wages, but also sheds light on the unethical practice of exploiting workers, which is incongruent with a democratic society. However, in order for this issue to improve, the American society itself needs to participate by communicating with politicians and business leaders that the current minimum wage is unacceptable. Becoming educated, engaged, empowered is the responsibility of the American people to help improve the lives of others. Karabeyoglu 6 Works Cited 15  15 Now. N.p., 2017. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. 15NOW.org Bazzinotti, Corinne. Arguments for a Living Wage in the United States: Prospects for Persuasion and  (2012): 1-64. Hillary Clinton on income and minimum wage: Reality Check team vets the  CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Jacobs, Ken, Ian Perry, and Jenifer MacGillvary. The high public cost of low  Labor Center, CA: University of Berkeley, April 13 (2015). Pofeldt, Elaine, and Special To CNBC.com. This Is How the Minimum Wage Hike May Affect Jobs:  CNBC. CNBC, 06 May 2016. Web. 25 Apr. 2017 Pollin, Robert, and Jeannette Wicks-Lim. A $15 U.S. Minimum Wage: How The Fast- Food Industry Could Adjust Without Shedding  Journal Of Economic Issues (M.E. Sharpe Inc.) 50.3 (2016): 716-744. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics. (2014). BLS Reports. Retrieved from https://www.bls.gov/opub/reports/minimum-wage/archive/characteristics-of-minimum-wage- workers-2014.pdf