Dague 1 Sarah Dague Instructor Campbell ENC 1102 21 March 2017 The Center for Disease and Visual Rhetoric The Center for Disease and Control, the CDC, has played a crucial role in creating better health for all Americans over many years. One aspect the CDC has focused on is the use and effects of vaccinations on children. Vaccines have consistently been a repeating controversial topic in the health care industry, with much focus on their ability to be more effective than natural immunity. Although vaccinations are very important in ensuring protection from various, dangerous diseases worldwide, many people live in fear of adverse effects and go against receiving vaccines. Many stakeholders have argued their views about this issue, one advocate for vaccinations being the CDC. Established in 1946, CDC is known as the premiere health promotion, prevention, and preparedness Role and The Center for Disease Control and Prevention has worked hard to create and research vaccines, while creating and implementing a vaccination schedule for children to follow. To support their views, the advertising tries to convince parents of getting their children vaccinated by using rhetorical appeals and implementing specific details that reach out to their audience. Both images chosen to represent the tactics try to stress the importance of vaccinations for children, while trying to appeal to and persuade parents to allow them for the health of their kids in the long run. Dague 2 The CDC mainly wants parents to understand that vaccines are the best way to prevent against such terrible diseases. In image 1, the rhetorical appeals of ethos (credibility), pathos (emotion), logos (logic) and kairos (timeliness) are used. Additionally, an important color scheme and careful sizing allows the message to standout and ultimately convince parents to get their children vaccinated. The CDC carefully establishes credibility by using the CDC logo and website. Providing ethos elements shows viewers that they are an official and credible source to listen to. Also, the small description of the CDC being a part of the U.S. Department of Health reaches out to parents because it is proving themselves as a highly credible government agency. Another way this stakeholder displays their views to get the word out about vaccinations being crucial to a health is by appealing to the emotions of the audience. Emotions given off by this image shows the appeal to pathos, and is seen mostly by the smiling kids inside the box labeled Because they support vaccinations, they are happy and healthy. This makes viewers associate vaccines with happiness and persuades them to get their kids these vaccinations so they can be vibrantly cheerful and strong. One carefully implemented aspect of the poster is the size of the box they included. When looking at this poster, the box is easily noticed because it is largely placed around smaller words, drawing the eyes to it. Furthermore, the CDC uses fear to approach this situation, creating a connection to the feelings. When looking at the statistic given about how many people exempt themselves and their children from vaccines, it is almost overwhelming that many states have made exemption information available to the public because they feel like it is a growing concern. Having the affected states in a bright orange color on a darker grey background emphasizes the states and makes the amount of states selected seem massive. According to advertising expert Jamie Oetting, creates urgency and prompts us to take Dague 3 Creating an atmosphere where the audience becomes scared and the possibility of being regretful if something negative were to happen gives them an extra push to go out and do something regarding the subject. One of the biggest ways the CDC appeals to the parents who question vaccines is by using logic. Logic is seen in the statistic about unvaccinated people clustering and putting other people at risk. The words and are highlighted to emphasize the importance of parents seeing this, while coordinating the colors of the words with the image to the right of it. This image shows how integrated the people at risk are with the people who are not vaccinated but cluster together. The CDC is trying to convince people to look at their communities because they should be wary of how easy it could be for children to get a disease spread from their community if not having the vaccines to help defend against them. When talking about how to effectively communicate the need for vaccinations, ASTHO claims that one way is to: parents about the importance of community immunity and the vaccination rates in their 6). Like this poster does, aiming to teach parents the severity of community immunity highly influences them to act on the topic due to its personal connection with almost everyone. Logos is also shown at the top of the poster when it discusses the fact that vaccine rates are high but children are still capable of receiving a disease. This is appealing to parents because some parents believe that since a disease is not widespread, it would be hard for a child to receive it. But with having this saying, its showing that its illogical to believe impossible to still get the diseases. Although this image does not focus on timeliness as much as other forms of propaganda, the use of timeliness for this image urges parents to research what saying now, before it is too late to get your child vaccination. The CDC having the find out statement with the website allows it to be readily available, saying to get on the vaccination schedule faster and get your kids Dague 4 vaccinated before too late. It almost uses time to scare parents into getting vaccinations. Using these techniques, the CDC in not only this image, but many other images promoting vaccines pushes parents to get vaccinations for their children to create a healthier, better life for their children. The methods the Center for Disease Control and Prevention uses to appeal to their intended audience is reiterated in the second image chosen. This image expressing the importance of vaccines for children makes it apparent to parents that they are a trusted source to listen to using ethos. In this image, ethos is shown using the CDC logo and website as well as the first image. They also include the description of being part of the government Department of Health, seen in the previous image. One element of credibility that this image contains is the statement about the amount of years this agency has been dealing with vaccines. This specific aspect shows the audience it has been around a long time, allowing there to be a sense of relief and trusting towards this source. Also, the CDC conveys their message by reaching out to emotions and triggering them to want vaccinations for their children. The enlarged image of the baby placed near the center of the visual appeals to emotions by making them want to help and ensure the best health for this child. The point of imaging this child to that size and place is to catch the eye of the audience. The child is also looking to the right at the statistics, looking amazed about how much vaccines really help which causes the viewers to also look in that direction. Another appeal the CDC uses is pathos. This concept is seen when this poster relates the statistics to life situations because it gets an emotional reaction out of people when they realize the seriousness. It gets parents to be open-minded and hopeful when knowing how much of an impact vaccines have had. One way the CDC applies logic to this situation is by adding multiple statistics that not only allow emotion, but logic to be in place. Logos is seen in the Dague 5 statistics about the vaccinations given during that certain time. The audience is pushed to think about how much vaccinations help and influence children by relating it to real-world things that seem outrageous. Having common symbols that appeal easily to the audience plays a big part in showing the importance of the statistics. Lastly, timeliness is shown when the effects are given about vaccines in a certain amount of time. It appeals to parents that vaccinations have done so much in a certain amount of time and that it can do so much more. This image says that this program has been around for 20 years, showing the urgency to continue to create and improve even more. Also, having the website for the program readily available gives off the sense of waste time, do this Like the first image, the Center for Disease and Control implements many appeals to reach out and convince parents to vaccinate their children. Many advertisements and propaganda used by massive organizations have many details in them that sparks interest in their intended audience. When approaching the vaccination controversy, the CDC mainly tries appealing to parents to get their children the vaccines they need by using ethos, pathos, logos and kairos. They consistently reiterate the benefits of vaccinations, and furthermore the negative effects of not receiving the vaccines. Creating these visuals spreads the word to people nationwide the important role vaccines play in a human life and that action needs to be taken to prevent disease from taking over. Dague 6 Works Cited Effectively About ASTHO, Association of State and Territorial Health Of Cials, 2010, www.astho.org/WorkArea/DownloadAsset.aspx?id=5464. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. Role and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 14 Apr. 2014, www.cdc.gov/about/organization/mission.htm. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Oetting, Jami. Advertising: How Brands Use Feelings to Get People to HubSpot, blog.hubspot.com/marketing/emotions-in-advertising-examples. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. Dague 7 Image 1: Dague 8 Image 2: