Goodson 1 Nicki Goodson Mariama Changamire ENC 1102 2 May 2017 Rape Culture On a College Campus The average report of rape culture on a college campus provides the statistic that states nearly one in five women are sexually harassed on a campus within her first year, while one in seven are raped within the first year. This statistic has remained a consistent in the United States for over ten years. (National Sexual Violence Resource Center, 2016). The ongoing issue of rape and sexual assault have allowed for the development of a stigma and culture to amerce itself within college campuses. However, little is being done to create a probable solution, and stop the spread of this culture. Through the use of education, the voice of the victims, and the elaboration of the definition safe sex, placed in college curriculum the fight to end rape culture will have a more likely chance of succeeding in ending rape culture. Masculinity, something the United States of America prides itself on is one of the main factors in contributing with the sense of rape being acceptable. The expansion of rape culture throughout college campuses can be traced back to male-dominant foundations. This sense of masculinity can be seen in small gestures such as comments made, including boys will be boys, the King of the house, and he plays like a boy. While these comments seem harmless, they allow for the creation of a misogynistic, patriarchal society in which rape is okay. In addition to the Goodson 2 comments, the development of masculinity allows for a male-complex in which men get what they want and women are ordered to follow. In the United States, this idea seems nearing an end, yet it is still present in households everywhere. Professor, Jeremy Posadas discusses the ways in which men reacted when presented with the topic of masculinity and how it contributes to the concept of rape culture. Many of the men reacted in a negative way, often times yelling out or asking questions that resulted in a negative response. This negative response came due to the presentation of the challenging masculinity. This rise of anger was produced in the situation, Posadas states, came to realize that students could come away from the unit without coming to consciousness of the truth sexual violence in the West is fundamentally the problem of masculinity-a manifestation of the phenomenon that gender studies conceptualizes as a toxic masculinity. Students need to understand that while rape culture is the mechanism that channels toxic masculinity into specific, socially legitimized practices of sexual violence, if we want to eradicate sexual violence, we must transform the apparatuses by which boys are subjectified into toxically masculine (Posadas, 2016). Because men grow up with the belief that everything they do is excusable, they tend to continue to believe that this is the case in which engaging in violent, or nonconsensual sex is permissible. Through telemarketing, engagement within the media, and the constant need for a masculinity complex to be achieved, the development of rape culture has expedited, exceptionally so on a college campus. The concept of rape, often times even the concept of sexual engagement is hidden from the public eye. The first amendment states that the United States Constitution prohibits the making of any law regarding the speech of oneself, however these published works are rarely exposed or featured, even in times with the intensity of the media. Julie McCann, a victim and survivor goes in to detail in her peer reviewed works, discussing what occurs and Goodson 3 what the eye is yet to see. The issue when it comes to voice is that with the lack of encouragement and support comes a significantly minimal amount of confidence that is found in survivor. This lack of victim advocacy and marginal amounts of respect for sexual assault and rape victims shuts down, and merely hides what is actually going on everywhere, especially on college campuses. The reports on sexual assault and rape are rarely exposed to the eye, and are even lesser so praised. These reports need to be seen, they need to be out there. School newspapers, pamphlets, bloggers on campus should be aware of the reports that come in to the school, and should have freedom to discuss it. This encouragement would allow for victims to speak out, and for people to be exposed to what rape is; this violence and its demeanor can be seen. While the issue of rape culture has been reported, researched and prominently resides on college campuses, merely nothing is being done to stop this and college campuses are not being held accountable. Many colleges rely strictly on programs such as as a (Blue Seat Studios, 2016), showing the clip and being done with it. While many schools do have programs for safe sex practice, they are never mandated or encouraging, usually resulting in the discouragement or a bad reputation. This does nothing to stop rape culture, in fact it worsens it. Men are exposed to the belief that it is okay to continue in these activities, to continue engaging in no-consent and unsafe sex. Rape culture and the ongoing spread of the indecency of both males and females on a college campus has allowed for people to not ensure safety while on a college campus. The idea of a masculinity complex and the issue that arises from males feeling as though they must engage in certain actions in order to ensure they are manly and masculine lead to an ever-so growing issue of rape and sexual assault. This masculinity also arises from the issue of people not Goodson 4 knowing of the victims, not hearing of them and losing connection with the question of whether or not rape culture is even a viable thing. Both of these issues tie in with the lacking amount of responsibility colleges have when it comes down to rape culture. Lacking in accountability, college campuses do everything they can to ensure a good title and good name rather than accepting their flaws and working towards solving the issue, whether that be implementing activities or raising money for the issue. College campuses everywhere have a serious issue to work on; rape culture is not something that is going to go away without the help of the higher ups in college administration whom can look towards the victims and organizations everywhere such as Planned Parenthood, dedicated to working towards ending violence and stopping rape culture. Goodson 5 Works Cited Gourley, Eleanor Christie1. Getting to Yes-Means-Yes: Re-Thinking Responses to Rape and Rape Culture on College  Washington University Journal of Law & Policy, vol. 52, July 2016, pp. 195-225. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct= true&db=ofm&AN=121535881&site=eds-live. Teaching the Cause of Rape Culture: Toxic  Journal of Feminist Studies in Religion (Indiana University Press), vol. 33, no. 1, Spring2017, pp. 177-179. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx?direct= true&db=hft&AN=122344818&site=eds-live. Jeremy, Posadas. Teaching the Cause of Rape Culture: Toxic  Journal of Feminist Studies in Religion, no. 1, 2017, p. 177. EBSCOhost, doi:10.2979/jfemistudreli.33.1.23. Fisher, Connie S., Francis T. Cullen, and Michael G. Turner. The Sexual Victimization of College  NIJ (2000): 11-47. National Institute of Justice. Web. 13 Feb. 2016. <https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/182369.pdf>. Fraser, Courtney. From Ladies  to Asking for : Benevolent Sexism in the Maintenance of Rape  California Law Review, vol. 103, no. 1, Feb. 2015, pp. 141-203. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bah&AN =100942472&site=eds-live. Goodson 6