Blondino-Pine 1 Sarah Blondino-Pine Professor Harley Campbell English 1102 25 February 2017 The Ringling Bros and Barnum & Bailey In the world that we live in, one thing we feel that we need is entertainment. It makes our brains excited with all the different things going on at once. The Ringling Bros and Barnum & Bailey circus shows do exactly that which draws the attention of people of all ages. Clowns juggling eight bowling pins at once, people shooting out of rockets, and tigers doing cool tricks is interesting enough as it is. However, they need to advertise their shows to get an audience and what better way than to give sneak peek pictures of what people will see if they come. The use of ethos, logos, pathos, and Kairos in these two images catches the attention of all viewers and shows them what their show is all about. Applying these rhetorical appeals on top of the brightly colored backgrounds reflects the organizations goal of a family oriented event that is fun for everyone. The Ringling Brothers started out as a song-and-dance troupe in 1882 until they began adding circus acts to their show. Once they added the first elephant to their circus, the ticket sales jumped and they were on their way to becoming the biggest circus of all time. Fame and fortune followed the circus everywhere and eventually they bought every circus including Barnum & Bailey by 1907. When both circuses were combined, there was no stopping the amazing things they could accomplish. On top of everything, in 1929 John Ringling bought the American Circus Corporation which brought a total of eleven major circuses under Ringling control (Britannica). Blondino-Pine 2 Using rhetorical appeals and visual rhetoric in their advertisements is one element that made this company so successful and well-known. In figure one, which is a poster from the 1920s, viewers can get a glimpse of all the different acts that they will see at the show. The use of ethos by putting both The Ringling Bros and Barnum & Bailey names on each advertisement gives the circus even more credibility. This is an important factor because when people are looking at an advertisement they want to know it is not a scam. Also, it helps provide trust because the audience will know that they are going to see what is advertised on the poster. The presence of pathos is exemplified in this poster using images of different acts that will be performed live. When someone sees people swinging from the ceiling, standing on horses backs as they run around the ring, walking across a tight rope, and so much more they are automatically intrigued. They feel excited and curious as to how these performers can do such courageous things. On the poster are the words Greatest Acts from Every Country in the World Assembled for This which captures the attention using both logos and Kairos. By having this quote, the use of logos makes the viewer think about all the culture behind the acts and which countries they came from. The words also grab the attention by using Kairos because it says for this which makes them want to see the show before it is gone. The quote is calling everyone to come out to their show and see the magic they make in person before it is too late. Logos is also used with how many different acts are shown on the poster because it makes them wonder what else they will see. All these elements of rhetorical appeal are what draws the audience in but they also use a duller yellow and red color scheme for visual rhetoric. These dull colors make take you back in time to the 1920s which is when the poster was created and would appeal to an older crowd. Blondino-Pine 3 In figure two, which is a poster from one of their most recent shows, viewers are pulled in by the message shown within it. Once again, the advertisement uses ethos by providing credibility in the names of each circus that makes up the show. Also, they feature one of their main trainers on the poster which shows credibility because he himself is famous. There also happens to be a little boy in an astronaut suit gazing in amazement at one can only speculate to be the show. He himself looks so happy and excited that it makes the viewer feel the same bringing in the element of pathos. The words of this are placed directly in the middle of the poster which hits pathos in another sense. By placing it in the center in capital, bold, colorful letters, makes the audience feel curious and eager to see what is in store. However, they also made sure that was brightly colored to catch the viewers eye and continued that color scheme throughout the poster to give a sense of fun to it. When people read the Circus One Last they are fascinated in what the experience might be like. This ties in both logos and Kairos because it not only is telling them to come and experience it but it also makes the audience wonder what they will be experiencing. However, this is not the only way that Kairos is implemented in this advertisement. The first thing that catches your eye when you look at the poster are the words in bold, capital, bright yellow letters. By using this statement, they are reeling in people because it will be the last time they can ever see the show. It is then backed up by the ending of the first quote I mentioned which emphasized last This poster was found on a ticket website where they give event details and every word describes the feeling of the little boy on the poster. will take the helm to join the circus Space Fleet on a heroic quest of good versus evil that will let imaginations run wild with unexpected surprises and thrills at every (eventsfy). Using these tactics, the advertisement has caught the attention of people from all ages. Blondino-Pine 4 The Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey know what makes their audiences happy and what gets them out of their seat. However, for them to attract new people to come join the fun they must implement their show into the advertisements. This is the reason why they use all four elements of rhetorical appeal in every single poster they make. If people did not know what to expect at the shows, then they probably would not go but since the company uses their shows fun in their advertisements, it gets attention. Entertainment is a big part of our society and The Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey have mastered the ways to keep people on their toes. However, they choose to also include visual rhetoric to hook the audience even more. Their color schemes are used to portray either an old timey, classic feeling in figure one or a fun, exciting feeling for figure two. Both posters capture the attention of different ages and therefore they can reach their goal. decision was even more difficult because of the amazing fans that have become part of our extended circus family over the years, and we are extremely grateful to the millions of families who have made Ringling Bros. part of their lives for says Kenneth Feld about having to close the circus (Kenneth). This organization is all about fun family oriented events that can bring everyone together and they show just that in all their advertisements. (1274) Blondino-Pine 5 Works Cited The Editors of Britannica. Britannica, Britannica, Inc., 17 Jan. 2017, www.britannica.com/topic/Ringling- Brothers. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. to Ringling Bros. and Barnum and Bailey Presents Eventsfy, www.eventsfy.com/event/ringling-bros-and-barnum-bailey-presents-out-of-this- world275336/richmond/richmond-coliseum/2017-03-26. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. Feld, Kenneth. Bros. Ringling Bros. Circus, www.ringling.com/. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. Blondino-Pine 6 Figure 1: Figure 2: