Leger 1 Hantz Leger Mrs. Changamarie ENC1102 6 May 2017 Direct-to-Consumer Prescription Drug Advertisements In mid-1980 information on new prescription drugs was only given to doctors and pharmacists. Since the drug companies have deviated from this practice and have adopted the use of direct-to-consumer (DTC) advertisements for drug promotion. Direct-to-consumer drug advertisement is promotional effort by a pharmaceutical company to present prescription drug information to the general public in the lay (Wilkes,112). A common example would be an infomercial shown on television about a particular drug. The United States is one of two countries to permit DTC advertisement and contributes to 42% percent of global prescription drug spending. (Content Analysis of False and Misleading Claims in Television Advertising for Prescription and Nonprescription Drugs). The original purpose of this new market strategy was to raise awareness to different treatment options for patients who could be suffering from illnesses. These medicines have yet to be tested extensively for the long term effects. Vioxx was advertised, requested by patients, and prescribed from 1999 to 2004 for arthritis and pain relief before being withdrawn from the market for causing strokes and heart attacks. (Should Prescription Drugs be Advertise Directly to Consumers). As of November 17 th 2015, the American Medical Association (AMA) has called for a ban on the DTC ads of prescription drugs because of the negative effect DTC ads can have on the healthcare industry. There should be a discontinuation of Direct-to-consumer drug advertisements because they weaken the relationship between patients and doctors, misinform patients and increase the cost of the healthcare and prescriptions. Leger 2 Direct-to-consumer advertisements on prescriptions drugs weakens the relationship between patients and doctors in many ways. When patients see the prescription ad on television, that they believe could help cure their illnesses, they go to the doctors. The patient then inform the doctor of the medication seen on television and request for their doctor for the prescription. The doctor examines the patient and realize the medication requested by the patient a good idea. Although direct-to-consumer (DTC) prescription drug ads encourage people to seek medical advice from health professionals, the patients who are convinced the drug would work because of what the advertisement says, undermines the recommendation for an alternative solution. likely they will see a different doctor who will prescribe them the medication. (C. Lee Ventola) Because the ads are composed in such a way that it compels you to get it. Seeking a second opinion is a clear sign of the diminishing trust between the patient and doctor. Because of this, doctors begin feeling pressured to prescribe prescriptions that are not in the best interest of the patient. 74% [of had a patient request an inappropriate drug, and 43% responded that they felt pressured to prescribe the inappropriate drug. Over half of requests for prescription drugs seen in DTC ads were honored by  (Journal of Clinical Oncology). Thus we can see that the doctors having less of an influence on being prescribed. Health care professionals with years of experience are becoming less convincing than commercials on prescription drugs. DTC ads on prescription drugs can be misinforming because of overlooked information, lack of detail and overemphasized benefits. There are stipulations against DTC ads on prescription drugs which requires them to include important information in the ads such as side effects and risks. But often times when these part of the ads are presented, sped up and the voice of the narrator is lowered or the words are printed extremely small and in thin font; Leger 3 making it difficult to follow along and hear. The ads are set up in a way where the dangerous information can be overlooked by the viewer and only the benefits are apparent. Dr. Aaron Kesselheim says that, the side effects are glossed over they describe the risks at the same time they play pleasant music or show pleasant pictures which helps to distract people from getting the Not only are they covering up information, but leaving some out as well. DTC ads may inform patients about diseases/medical conditions and possible treatments but according to a study done by the Journal of General Internal Medicine, 60% of claims made in DTC prescription drug ads aired from 2008 to 2010 left out important  and 43% of the claims in DTC drug ads were objectively true while 55% were potentially misleading and 2% were  Which shows various area of DTC ads providing inaccurate information on prescription drugs. By omitting and covering up the harmful details about the prescriptions, the ads are overemphasizing the prescription with the exaggerated information about the benefits. The increase in prescriptions and health care cost is another reason why we should omit DTC prescription drug ads. Millions are spent on advertisements for brand name prescription drugs each year. The advertisement expense of the prescription makes the product more expensive. Not only that but only brand name prescriptions are being advertised to consumer. Patients are requesting these brand name from their doctor which could cost 30-80% more than the generic and patients taking the or preference of generic. 37% of doctors surveyed said they often or sometimes prescribed brand name drugs because the patient requested the brand name drug rather than prescribe the equal and cheaper .(Science Daily) Often time, the prices of a prescription inflates to recoup the expenses of DTC ad. But its directly correlated with the amount of insurance spent for that prescription in pharmacies. a Leger 4 cycle; since the prescription are being advertised, more are being requested by patients and prescribe by doctors then filled by patients and increase insurance usage. The insurance must raise the cost of their benefits in order to stay profitable. 78% of doctors surveyed agreed that DTC prescription drug ads increased the cost of  (Richard Meyer) The use of direct-to-consumer prescription drug ads should be banned in the United States like many other countries because they weaken the relationship between patients and doctors, misinform patients and increase the cost of the healthcare and prescriptions. DTC ads has changed the healthcare industry. Doctors struggle with patients to provide the best treatment option. The ads are misleading the viewers by presenting them in brightest way possible and leaving the negative effects of them out the ads or covering them up. The advertisements for prescription drugs tend to emphasize a necessity for it when a lot of illnesses can be treated with a healthy diet and exercise .This leads to the overuse of prescriptions. But one of the greatest oppositions to the advertisement strategy is that its raising the cost of healthcare coverage by spending millions on advertisements each year. That why important we take action and join the fight against DTC ads now before too late. Signing petitions against them, joining organization against them, protesting against and donating to the cause against DTC ads on prescription are just a few ways to take action. Stand up today for a cause that will affect your life, as well as the lives of everyone you love. Leger 5 Work Cited Ann Marie Christensen, TV Drug Ads: The Whole www.eurekaalert.org, Sep. 16, 2013 Background on Drug  Background on Drug Advertising. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan.2017. C. Lee Ventola, Direct-to-Consumer Pharmaceutical Advertising: Therapeutic or www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov, Oct. 2011 Direct-to-consumer advertising under  WHO. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 30Jan. 2017. Goal Disruption  Journal Of Health Communication 21.2 (2016): 217- 227.PsycINFO. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Amie C., Helen W. Sullivan, and Kathryn J. Aikin. Randomized Study OfPlacebo And Framing Information In Direct-To-Consumer Print Advertisements ForPrescription  Annals Of Behavioral Medicine 48.3 (2014): 311-322. PsycINFO.Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Prescription Drug Ads  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., 7 Sept. 2016. Web. 30 Jan.2017. Leger 6 Rosenberg, Benjamin D., and Jason T. Siegel. The Effect Of Inconsistency Appeals On TheInfluence Of Direct-To-Consumer Prescription Drug Advertisements: An Application Of Science Daily, Many U.S. Physicians Often Fulfill Patient Requests for Brand-Name Drugs Instead of Equivalent www.sciencedaily.com, Jan. 7, 2013 Taylor Tyler, Direct-to-Consumer Drug Ads Should Be Scaled Back, Doctors www.ivn.us, June 3, 2013 Leger 7 Leger 8 pe