Student 1 Student Instructor Lisa E. DuBois Composition II (ENC 1102) 16 April 2017 We Only Have One Chance The Earth, the world in which people live, is as fragile as glass. In the past century, this fragility began to be threatened by Global Warming and its effects. This process makes the Earth gradually warmer by the accumulation of greenhouse gases, (carbon dioxide, methane, dinitrogen monoxide) which are gases that trap infrared light preventing it from leaving the planet, thus, warming the surface of it. On top of this problem, there is a greater one: Scientists and people in general are still arguing whether this phenomenon needs an urgent solution or it is not very important at all. Thanks to this continuous fight, the opportunity to help the planet is going away by the minutes. If this problem gets out of control the planet can probably end up as Venus. A hellish planet was very hot, F, and was kept hot by a thick carbon dioxide (James Hansen) Something must be done in order to stop this; more people should start engaging in this discussion by saying that this problem needs an urgent solution, they should spread the word and be heard. If this is not stopped with urgency, Earth will become like her evil twin. Recycle, use the car less, stop the futile cosmism, the Earth needs you more than ever. There has been a tremendous preoccupation with Global Warming since the 20 th Century. This has been triggered by the notion that the scientific community is foreseen that that process can lead the Earth to a state like Venus. Although since that era was well known that that process was affecting the planet, the principal behind it well understood for more than a (James Hansen) This process of warming of the Earth has been present Student 2 in her since the last Glacial Age. Eldevik, Tor, et al. state in their paper that North Atlantic Ocean have traditionally been considered perennially sea ice covered during the Last Glacial (Eldevik, Tor, et al. 234) Now days there is no a perma-frozen sea in the North Atlantic region, thus the temperature on the Earth has been increasing gradually from that last period, and melting the ice in the north. The real problem began when humanity entered the first Industrial Revolution, during this time the fuel consumption began to increase dramatically up to the point in which we are today. million metric tons of coal consumed in 1850 are dwarfed by nearly 5.4 billion metric tons of coal consumed worldwide in (Sherwood) This huge use of coal contributed to the rise of levels of carbon dioxide and sulfur dioxide in the atmosphere, thus increasing the effectivity of the heat absorption of the entire planet. (Sherwood) All this increased absorptivity has led to a of 0.4 degrees (James Hansen) in the planet. Although this amount of temperature seems nothing, it represents the temperature of an entire planet, thus it is very significant. Most of the increments in the amounts of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are due to human activity. Scientists predicted that carbon dioxide should have increased in linear (Sherwood) since the Industrial Revolution. This means that the amounts of particles per million (ppm) of the gas should have increased slowly. But they were shocked to find that it was accelerating since the (Sherwood). Because there is a relationship between greenhouse gases and the warming of the planet, many people see the human production of these gases as the cause of the warming. The good thing about this is that if humanity is to be blamed for the warming effect, it can also fix what it has done and revert the issue. The current amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere causes an imbalance between the amount of energy that comes in and the amount that comes out. (James Hansen) This is the basis of the Global Warming and in order to fix it humanity must drop the levels of carbon Student 3 dioxide 391 ppm, back to 350 (James Hansen) Although 41 ppm seem simple and a little quantity, this is in a global scale which means that it is really complicated. Global Warming is a topic that concerns everybody in this planet. The entire humanity lives on this planet, and this issue affects the entire planet, thus affecting everybody. Many people will say that this issue is not urgent nor worth fighting for, but that is not true. In the movie documentary Age of directed by Armstrong, there is a clear illustration of a near future in which the effect of Global Warming was disregarded and not considered as urgent. The protagonist lives in an era in which the levels of the sea are so high that they have submerge the city of New York. The temperatures reach as high as F in the summer. There are fires and wars over resources all over the world. These scenarios are too hypotheticals to be considered true, but they are not too far off from a possible reality. If the temperatures keep rising the ice in the poles will keep melting, thus increasing the level of the sea and reducing the cooling system of the planet. This will cause more hotter seasons that can produce more storms and forestall fires. Humanity do not deserve to live in such a world because many people did not care about the seriousness of Global Warming. Humanity should fight to stop this from becoming reality. Many organizations (such as Greenpeace) have proposed many ways to stop this. In a paper published by Greenpeace in 2014 they propose many alternatives to the use of fossil fuels as well as methods to introduce them. One of the solutions that hey proposed is to all support for dirty (Greenpeace 7) They mean that the Government, which includes the people, should stop relying and subsidizing fossil fuels in order to stop their consumption. Ordinary people should press on these things, but they can also help directly with the problem. Things must be done in order to keep the levels of greenhouse gases low and the Earth safe. Do start using the car less and using public transportation more. By doing this the emissions of these gases will be reduced and you will even get to know people seated in the Student 4 bus or train. Do start recycling your wastes. Although this process seems trivial, the action of recycling gives the objects the opportunity of being reused. By this process, factories would not have to produce as many as before and they will reduce their emissions too. The action of turning off electronics and lights is a great way to contribute too, so do it. By doing this, electrical companies will not produce excess electricity and thus less fossil fuels will be burned down. Everybody can help a little to stop Global Warming, from the little children to the old people, everybody can do something. But the most important thing is to be heard, so go on and join an organization like Greenpeace ( http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/get-involved/ ), spread the fight, spread the solutions. The future of the well-being of humanity and the Earth is fragile. The effects of Global Warming are causing the temperature of the planet to increase and the levels of ice to be reduced. Although this seems trivial at first, people should start working to stop this process in order to avoid a possible future in which the planet ends up being like Venus. Just by reducing the amount of energy that is consumed and the waste of products, humanity can contribute a lot to the process of mitigating this effect. Not everybody must have money or be a politician to influence this discussion. Everybody lives in this planet, everybody has a say in this matter, everybody must make sure that is heard. This topic concerns everybody because the future of life as is known is at risk. Global Warming can be stopped, it is not easy, but is can happen. Learn, read and be informed, the future is not set and it can be changed. (WC: 1457) Student 5 Work Cited Armstrong, Franny, director. The Age of Stupid. Spanner Films. 2009. Eldevik, Tor, et al. Brief History of Climate the Northern Seas from the Last Glacial Maximum to Global Quaternary Science Reviews, vol. 106, no. Dating, Synthesis, and Interpretation of Paleoclimatic Records and Model-data Integration: Advances on the INTIMATE project (Integration of Ice core, Marine and Terrestrial records, COST Action ES0907), 15 Dec. 2014, pp. 225-246. EBSCOhost, doi: 10.1016/j.quascirev.2014.06.028. Greenpeace. A Sustainable USA Energy Greenpeace International. 2014. Greenpeace USA. Greenpeace USA, n.d., http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/ . Accessed 07 Mar. 2017. Hansen, James, Makiko Sato, and Reto Ruedy. of climate Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 109.37 (2012): E2415-E2423. Student 6 Hansen, James. I must speak out about climate James Hansen: Why I must speak out about climate change / TED Talk / TED.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Sherwood, Martha A. Revolution and Global Salem Press Encyclopedia of Science, January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.as px?direct=true&db=ers&AN=89475704&site=eds-live.