Truncale 1 Thomas Truncale Professor Lisa DuBois ENC 1102 - 046 30 April 2017 Standardized Testing Reform Standardized Testing is a consistently present topic across America, as there has been recent research coming to light that points toward the idea that standardized testing may be harmful to academic capabilities and careers. Standardized testing is currently being utilized in all fifty states in the United States of America, some of which having more than others (Time4Learning). While these types of tests are used by many different universities and boards to assess students progress on different subjects, recent revelations regarding them in their entirety have proven to be overwhelmingly negative. It is important that the constituents of standardized testing, students from elementary school to college across the country, all understand these negative findings, so they can educate themselves and choose to take action regarding the topic as it directly affects them and their education. In order to do so, students should visit online, an organization dedicated end the misuses and flaws of standardized Fairtest offers an incredibly large online database of scientific findings involving the negative aspects of standardized testing to educate yourself, and decide whether or not to take action against these tests in a variety of ways through your school district, state legislature, or university. Once students have educated themselves through the Fairtest Truncale 2 website, further action is recommended, the most ideal being to research and attend a local meeting or demonstration against the unfair over-practice that is standardized testing. As research involving standardized testing continues to become more extensive, the findings have continued to display these as a very negative area of education. According to Fairtest, nine-year study by the National Research Council (2011) concluded that the emphasis on testing yielded little learning progress but caused significant harm Negative consequences include narrowing the curriculum, teaching to the test, pushing students out of school (Fairtest). This plethora of consequences stems directly from standardized testing as a whole. Classrooms across the country are becoming more and more based on memorization for what is on the test, rather than focusing on allowing students to truly understand and process information themselves. Additionally, if instructors are not able to actively engage with their students in the classroom, and are as a result no longer happy with their job, the education field could become an undesirable path for both instructors and students in the very near future. This disconnect created by standardized testing will only become more negative if school boards and universities continue to rely on these tests as an accurate way of measuring student success. In addition to standardized testing being bad for both student and teacher bodies, they also undermine a very important aspect of American society: diversity. According to Dr. Armstrong, the Executive Director of the American Institute for Learning and Human Development, tests value diversity. There are a wide range of differences in the people who take standardized tests: they have different cultural backgrounds And yet the standardized test treats them as if they were all identical In administering Truncale 3 tests that take diversity into account in environments where diversity is highly valued, standardized testing loses much of its credibility. It is important for all tests that examine different ethnic and socioeconomic areas to appreciate the variations present. If the tests being distributed across the nation do not appreciate these differences, you could certainly argue that they should not be taken until their created in a way that takes all walks of life into account, as this makes their results non-credible across different areas of the United States of America because it does not represent everyone. Also, students that are taking these tests in very early stages of their lives, such as elementary school, should not grow up treating everybody in different situations the same, as standardized tests continue to do, which is pointed out in a different light by Pamela H. Zappardino, young women are discriminated against in scholarship competitions based on exam scores that the test own research shows to be biased (Zappardino Education is meant to have an environment of respect, giving students the best ability to learn and prosper both now and in the future. If both diversity and specific genders are being negatively impacted, those creating standardized tests must be shown through action that certain aspects need to change. Building off the points that standardized testing is both bad for students, teachers, and diversity in the United States of America, it is also overly used in schools across the country. According to an article written by Lyndsey Layton of the Washington Post, typical student takes 112 mandated standardized tests between pre-kindergarten classes and 12th grade, a new Council of the Great City Schools study found. By contrast, most countries that outperform the United States on international exams test students three times during their school Truncale 4 careers (Washington Standardized testing is flooding into our schools, and affecting those not only of older ages, but children in pre-kindergarten. This issue stems directly from the obsession that state legislatures and school boards have with standardized testing and its to measure student success as they grow older and move up in education. With such a large amount of tests, state legislates and school boards also fail to account for students who may have issues such as test anxiety. Issues such as test anxiety may directly affect students and their performance on tests, especially if they are being tested at an alarming rate such as 112 tests over such a small period of time. While the topic of standardized testing continues to be debated by both governmental and district entities, it is incredibly important for its constituents to educate themselves on the topic as well. It is a common thought across the country that standardized testing is being overused. This notion is backed by scientific evidence through studies that students need to understand and process. In order to educate these students, the website is filled with fact sheets that are dedicated to doing just that. In addition to the website offering both a background and analysis on standardized testing and its effects, they also provide infographics and detailed methods on how to affect the current state of standardized testing. For example, they offer a guide regarding test opt-outs, which is meant to directly cut into the funds and effectiveness of tests that people may not feel are effective, all of which being done by the very people that are supposed to be taking the tests in the first place. This is a way to get involved without going through the hoops of legislation, as it has been proven countless times that with less money being made, a company will have to reexamine its business strategy. Students must use opt-outs to Truncale 5 protest this practice that they feel is being unjustly forced upon them, as well as attend local demonstrations against standardized testing. Standardized testing in the United States of America has proven to be a fiercely debated topic over a recent number of years. This practice has, in the process, been proven to impact many aspects of a students educational lifestyle. These aspects are overwhelmingly labeled as being incredibly negative throughout the process of being a student for many years. However, it is important for these students to understand that change starts with them. By performing methods such as opting out of tests, they can directly impact both how many standardized tests are being given, as well as the frequency in which they are given. It has been shown that an educational environment that features less standardized testing through the years results in a greater ability to have more prosperous students. Therefore, I strongly urge that students educate themselves and take action through opt-outs and demonstrations against the constant and unwarranted increase in standardized testing throughout the United States in order to develop a more thoughtful and fair way of measuring any particular academic capability. WORKS CITED Standardized Testing By  Time4Learning. Time4Learning, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. The National Center for Fair & Open  The National Center for Fair & Open Testing FairTest. Fairtest, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. How Standardized Testing Damages Education (Updated July  How Standardized Testing Damages Education (Updated July 2012) FairTest. Fairtest, 28 Aug. 2007. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Armstrong, Thomas. 15 Reasons Why Standardized Tests Are  The American Institute for Learning and Human Development. Institute4Learning, 28 Feb. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. Zappardino, Pamela H. Fairtest: Charting a Course for Testing  Clearing House, vol. 68, no. 4, Mar/Apr95, p. 248. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? direct=true&db=aph&AN=9505070060&site=ehost-live. Layton, Lyndsey. Study Says Standardized Testing Is Overwhelming Public  The Washington Post. WP Company, 24 Oct. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.