Hantz Leger Mariama Changamire ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric The pharmaceutical industry is one of the most innovating research spaces. New cures and technology are generating each year from scientifical testing. An important organization that takes part in this revolution is the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers Association (PhRMA). Their health mission is devoted to advancing public policies that support innovative medical research, improve treatment, and yield real results. PhRMA is, to modernizing the drug discovery and development process, promoting value-driven health care, and engaging and empowering consumers, and addressing market (About PhRMA). The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers Association advocates on many issues such as direct-to-consumer advertisement, nonprescription drug importation, and heavy investments in research and development. They have success in creating and delivering medicines to aid patients live a longer and healthier life. PhRMA methods of appeal to emphasize the importance for new health treatment in the two images that represents a notion for new cures and their push for research and development. Image one expresses a notion for new cures by depicting health improvement within context of the image. The image consists of a man who seemed to be middle age based on his facial hair and receding hairline. The first conclusion drawn from analyzing this photo is that PhRMA wanted to depict an active middle age lifestyle. His mouth being partially open insinuates that he was engaging in some physical activity. He is wearing a sports jacket, which is what is normally worn during a cool morning exercise or jog on a bridge at the crack of dawn. These elements pieced together creates a theme of health improvement. Exercising is used to for health sustainment much like finding and taking a cure for an illnesses. Furthermore, through different media outlets a common theme to see middle age people running early in the morning up a bridge or uphill of some sort. The underlying message found consistently within these themes has been, trying to maintain a healthy lifestyle at a stereotypical inactive age. PhRMA values on health are aligned with the message portrayed in the image because their value are driven on a goal for healthy improvement. A notion for new cures is also indicated in the printed message hope to Just like the man exercising to obtain greater health, people also hope to develop cures to extend life by treating different illnesses. But having the word can invoke emotions such as optimism, in which people who see the ad can develop a feeling of still having a chance. A feeling that tells the person that not too late to turn your life around because hope for a cure. The theme is in correlation with the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers Association mission to modernizing the drug discovery and development process for health improvement. Also in the printed message hope to the word hope is bolded and the word cures is bolded and enlarged compared the rest of the words. According to the English club, bold for emphasis, when we want to make sure that our reader sees and takes in certain Therefore, it was imperative for the reader to see the words hope and cures, given that these words invoke emotion and will draw attention to the image. These emotions drives notion for new cures because there is a possibility of finding one. Throughout the image there is use of colors and light sources to symbolize deeper meaning behind a notion for new cures. The light beaming down against the man draws to different meanings. A light beaming down on a person translate things such as faith, power, spirituality and used to create focal points in a scene. Here they placed the beam of light behind the head and place him in a angle where he looks like moving towards the light but turns back for a sec. It can be understood that they want the viewer to see the man running towards the light, or that he was moving in the direction of the light source. A play on the phrase, light at the end of the road or is displayed. Per Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary, the meaning of the phrase is, of success, happiness, or help after a long period of Hence the image appeals to people who have been struggling with the illness and hope to find a cure which draws back to the overall theme of the essay. This second image is statistical chart that is used to update many followers on where PhRMA progress stands on research and development. The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacture of America is trade group that advocates businesses in the pharmaceutical industry. They also promote direct to consumer prescription drug advertisements. They believe the goal of DTC ads are to get the information out to patients. PhRMA says that studies have shown DTC ads on prescription drugs encourage patients to see their doctors and start important conversations about their health that might had not taken place (About PhRMA). Immediately when seeing the image two the big prescription bottle as the focal point of the visual, which signals PhRMA. Hence, they are huge advocates for prescriptions. The prescription bottle is bright orange with whimsical geometric triangles and is used as an attention grabber. The whimsical geometric triangles can be used to appeal to a younger audience. But more importantly the color orange used is often used to symbolize energy, enthusiasm, and demanding of attention (Color Symbolism and Culture). Therefore, PhRMA wants to illuminate the prescription bottle in a positive way buy using bright orange and a clean white that pops. The subtitle rare in the image is printed with a turquoise color, another strategy to emphasis on certain areas of the image. also observed that PhRMA would want the use the most recognizable image of a prescription bottle. There are many forms of prescription bottles now and come in different colors, but the one used can be commonly identified by many people around the world. Buying using this image of a prescription bottle as an attention grabber appeals to a larger audience. The illustration has many appeals for credibility that ties back to push to research and development. The Pharmaceutical Research and Development Association uses numbers and percentage stats that are backed up from an outsource presented in the image. Below the Prescription bottle the words U.S. FDA. Drug Summary are printed. This cites where the information is founded and the organization who conducted the statistical research. The FDA (Food and Drug Administration) is and government organization regulates and approve of all new drugs in the market which. safe to say the information present in the image is reliable. Being that 2015 was a great year for new prescription drugs, medicines, and treatment therapy because there were so many breakthroughs. Allyson funk stated in February of 2016 the hope for new treatments and cures has never been greater, with recent advances delivering on the promise of the science for (Advancing the science for patients with rare diseases) PhRMA methods of appeal to emphasize the importance for new health treatment in the two images that represents a notion for new cures and their push for research and development. Through visual rhetoric, PhRMA illuminates their goals missions and value in underlying symbolisms presented in the images. With the two image shown we can see where the argument, mission, goal, and value of the organization can be decoded. Word Count:1271 Work Cited  English Club. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.YourDictionary. Examples of Ethos, Logos, and  Color Symbolism and  Symbolism of Color: Using Color for Meaning. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA). Advancing the science for patients with rare  PR Newswire: news distribution, targeting and monitoring. N.p., 29 Feb. 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. YourDictionary. N.p., 21 June 2016. Web. 27 Feb. Light at the end of the tunnel Definition in the Cambridge English  at the end of the tunnel Definition in the Cambridge English Dictionary. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.