!! Fishman 1 Jack Fishman Professor Wiggs ENC 1101 17 April 2017 Project 3 Final Draft ! Internet regulation and restrictions is a highly debated topic in modern time. The topic can be quite controversial and for good reason. There is basically two sides to the argument and it is difficult to fall somewhere in the middle because it is more of a yes or no question rather than a question of how much. On one side of the argument are people who believe the internet should be a free space, free of all rules and regulation. The other side of the argument is that the internet should be regulated in one way or another for reason like safety, legality or control. It is argued that the internet has gone through four stages since its birth (Palfrey 981). The open inter- net stage, which is exactly what it sounds like, a period of time when the internet was a life of its own completely free from regulation (Palfrey 981). Then came the stage which is when places like China and Saudi Arabia started restricting their citizens from speech against their government and organization against their government online (Palfrey 985). After was which was essentially a less drastic version of its predecessor (Palfrey 989). Finally came the stage which is the period the world is in now. This stage is a push back against the control of the internet which is why this is an important top- ic to talk about now (Palfrey 991). The problem is that a free internet only works in vacuum where the world is full of people with only good intentions. Furthermore the internet needs to be looked at from all types of perspectives and cultures what may be deemed as fine in the United States could be highly illegal in China. Internet regulation may not be ethical but it needed be ! !Fishman 2 cause it protects people, hinders the ability for illegal activity and help governments maintain order. The counterargument to all of this is pretty simple. People who disagree with the need for internet regulation base it on two reasons. The first reason being that it is unethical. This argu- ment is one that has some substance to it. One could certainly make the argument that regulating a cyberspace like the internet would be unethical, in countries like the United States it could even be argued that it violates the constitutional right of free speech. However, when this argument is looked at in depth it proves to be weak. Furthermore, the other argument is that it simply is not needed. This idea like mentioned earlier works in a vacuum, in a world without bad people the idea of an internet free of regulation sounds like a great one. Obviously, there are people with bad intentions in this world which is another reason internet regulation is needed. Regulation of the internet is a necessary evil. It is needed because people simply can not be trusted. But it needs to be looked at from two different ends of the spectrum. There is regula- tion of the internet by countries like the United States and regulation by countries like China. The two have very different reasons for their regulations. Countries like the United States do it for reasons like safety and to prevent illegal activity from happening. Countries like China on the other hand do it to control what their people see, while this may sound like a bad thing, one must take into account the cultural differences. In a study done by Dakuo Wang and Gloria Mark at the University of California, Irvine they looked at people who have been directly effected by intense internet regulation and their attitudes towards it. According to their study, 80% of the people in China believe there should be regulations on the internet and 85% believe it should be the gov- ernment doing it (Wang Mark 3). In a study done by A. Graham Peace, he found that when he ! !Fishman 3 tested the idea of internet regulation on college campuses, the results of his survey that many U.S institutions do not consider this topic(internet regulation) (Peace 109). Why do the opinions of these people matter though? The reason they matter is because it shows the internet regulation is more an argument for the sake of arguing rather than a real issue. Consider this, if the majority of people in the most heavily regulated country in the world, in terms of the internet, believe that there should be internet regulation and that it should be done by the government then why should people in countries with the least amount of regulations be try- ing to get rid of it. The study done in the United States shows that the topic is of little importance to most people. Getting rid of internet regulation would not make the internet a better place, it would simply make it a more dangerous place. Through the stages of this project, I believe that internet regulation is a niche argument. I think that there is a very small group of avid internet users who would prefer an open internet where they would have access to any and all information but in terms of the majority it would seem that most simply do not care that much and tend to think the internet now is just fine. If people in the most heavily regulated internet country in the world can put up with their regula- tions and think they are needed, I do not see a reason why the United States or any other lesser regulated country should remove regulations. Internet regulation is a necessary evil that is around to protect us not hold us back. (Word Count: 946) ! ! ! ! ! !Fishman 4 Works Cited Bauml, Jessica E. a mad, mad Internet: globalization and the challenges presented by Internet  Federal Communications Law Journal, May 2011, p. 697+. Academic OneFile, Web. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. Beech, Hannah, et al. The Other Side Of The Great  Time 185.23 (2015): 48-51. Academic Search Premier. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Soldatov, Andrei. The Taming Of The  Russian Politics & Law 53.5/6 (2016): 63-83. Academic Search Premier. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Stone, Lamar. What Is Cybercrime? Different Types of Illegal Internet  Bright Hub. N.p., 26 Oct. 2011. Web. 23 Apr. 2017. Palfrey, John. Four Phases Of Internet  Social Research 77.3 (2010): 981-996. Business Source Premier. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Peace, Graham. Balancing Free Speech And Censorship: Response To The  Communications Of The ACM 46.11 (2003): 104-109. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Wang, Dakuo and Gloria, Mark. Internet Censorship In China: Examining User Awareness And  ACM Transactions On Computer-Human Interaction (TOCHI) 22.6 (2015): 31:1-31:22. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. !