Student 1 Student L. E. DuBois ENC 1102 30 Apr 2017 Treatment of Depression Is Necessary Depression is known as the modern spiritual , the incidence of depression in the world is raising trend in recent years (WHO). The World Health Organization ranks depression and cancer as one of the most needed diseases in the 21st century. With the progress of human medicine and health, average life extension. But longevity does not mean to live happily. Depression is a modern disease that can not be ignored, people are in a competitive environment and face the problems that follow on each day. Unconsciously people are burdened with many pressures, such as psychological stress, social environment, family problems, career, school, disease, etc., which may be one of the causes of depression. data suggest that it may be the matching of specific types of events with specific types of psychosocial vulnerability that is especially important in bringing about (Scott Monroe, Eugene Oregon, and Anne D p422) Depression is the need for treatment; otherwise it will become more and more serious, and finally may affect and hurt the human brain. But often many depressed patients will ignore their own problems or afraid to admit their own spiritual problems, and then they missed the opportunity to cure early. Depression is like computer poisoning. General computer poisoning, it may encounter system failure; slow network speed or data disappear. And depression is like a computer virus, it will attack brain and interfere with the brain, making emotional control ability Student 2 disorders, slow thinking or memory loss. All the computers are likely to poison, so everyone may be suffering from depression. Because of the chances of depression and suicide rates are getting higher and higher, it is a very serious problem in the present society. Treatment of depression is related to everyone. Because there may be one day our friends or our family will suffer from depression, we should be the prevention and preparation before this problem occurs. So it is important to understand depression and treat depression. However, the discussion position in this article is to support the treatment of depression and to let everyone understand the importance of treating depression. This article will introduce the causes and symptoms of depression and explain why people need treatment and how to treat it. Through this article so that people understand the depression, and know that treatment of depression is important. In this article, the purpose is that make those non- engaged stakeholders to know that treatment of depression is related to them. Depression is a disease that involves physical, emotional, and thought. It will affect the diet and sleep, the feeling of the self and the way things look. Depression and temporary depression are not the same. Depression patients can not only improve the spirit of cheer up. If you do not treat, the symptoms can last for weeks, months, or years. However, appropriate treatment is helpful for most patients with depression. According to the current standard of diagnosis of depression (DSM-IV) a total of nine symptoms. If people have four symptoms or more then four symptoms in two weeks, this meaning is that may be suffering from depression. These nine symptoms are melancholy emotions, loss of interest in everything, loss of appetite, insomnia, mental retardation, fatigue, loss of vitality, sense of guilt, can not focus, and repeatedly thought of death (Rockville np). Why a person will have Student 3 depression? Scientists study the causes of depression and find that it is a multiple factor that causes a disease. Possible factors include: biological factors, genetic factors, and psychosocial factors. Sometimes depression is associated with many major trauma, stress, and loss, because of these serious blows and melancholy. Sometimes there is nothing happening, inexplicable melancholy up. So that people are most worried about is the problem of suicide, many depressed patients because they did not get a good treatment, and then cause the disease to increase the final choice of suicide. This is a terrible and serious problem, so people should pay more attention and attention to the treatment of depression. After proper treatment, melancholy symptoms will improve. The treatment of depression is divided into two parts, one is the psychological treatment and the other is physical therapy. Psychotherapy is mainly to support the self-intensity of depression patients, to give encouragement, affirmation, explanation, listening, empathy and so on. For example, ReachOut.com, they have been using the Internet to build an online mental health service for people. They use a very effective treatment to help patients with depression, because now is a network of developed times, the network platform is an effective and influential treatment medium. Social media sites are commonly used for communicating about suicide-related behavior with others, which raises the possibility of using social media to help prevent . (Robinson, Jo, Rodrigues, MariaFisher, SteveBailey, and EleanorHerrman, Helen. np) Physical therapy is through drugs or clinical trials to solve the problem of depression; in the past there are many misunderstandings on drug treatment. Drugs are not the only way to treat depression, but it is necessary for drug treatment in severe patients. When a patient has received a drug treatment, Student 4 it does not mean that life must rely on drugs to solve the problem of depression. Physical therapy is helpful for some patients with severe illness, and there are many stakeholders who are constantly studying new methods and drugs to treat depression. For example, ADAA advocate through clinical trials, research and education to treat depression. These two treatments are effective for depression, but still come or these treatments are still not complete and need to develop more treatment. the lack of a secular trend in prevalence of common mental disorders, it remains clear that these disorders are important contributors to burden of disease in all parts of the world while available treatment options are (Amanda Baxter, Kate Scott and, Alize Ferrari p514) Now there are a lot of organizations that pay for the treatment of depression, but still not enough so need more people to concern the treatment of depression. All we can help by donating money for these organizations, they need enough money to develop more and effective treatment. In fact, everyone may be suffering from depression, because there are many reasons that can lead to depression. Some people do not care about this serious problem because they do not have this problem. In this now great pressure of the community, we or our friends and relatives have a great chance to get depression. So everyone should be concerned about depression, and understand the importance of treatment of depression. If most people understand depression and support treatment, the suicide rate is likely to be reduced, and people can prevent the occurrence of depression in advance. We should use community sites to share information on the treatment of depression, and help those who treat the treatment of depression to do publicity. At the same time, we need to keep ourselves in a good state of mind. When we are under stress, if there is a symptom of depression, we should go to these Student 5 treatments for melancholia as soon as possible. A good way to help a depressed patient is to be a listener, a depressed patient who needs to be accompanied. We should accompany these patients in a timely manner, whether by phone, network or face to face. Our companions can prevent the tragedy from happening, which is also the most specific way. This article suggests that people can start by understanding information about depression and sharing depression. When people understand the depression, people can use this knowledge to help people who may suffer from depression and provide information on their treatment. If the public, which can effectively, concerned the treatment of depression reduce and improve depression. There are many ways to treat depression, and many people are trying to find a good way to treat, but many people still do not understand the seriousness of depression. This article thinks that treatments of depression is the responsibility of all, everyone may suffer from depression. We should take concrete action to solve this problem, such as sharing the way of treatment of depression, accompanied by depression patients, and financial support for the treatment of depression etc. The purpose of this article is to hope that the public can be aware of the importance of treatment of depression, through this article hope that people can begin to pay attention to this topic. (WC 1445) Student 6 Works cited Anxiety and Depression Association of America. Anxiety and Depression Association of America, https://www.adaa.org/. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Baxter, Amanda J., et al. Challenging the Myth of an of Common Mental Disorders: Trends in the Global Prevalence of Anxiety and Depression between 1990 and  Depression & Anxiety (1091-4269), vol. 31, no. 6, June 2014, pp. 506-516. 16 Apr 2017 Hollon, Steven D., et al. Psychosocial intervention development for the prevention and treatment of depression: promoting innovation and increasing  Biological psychiatry 52.6 (2002): 610-630. 16 Apr 2017 Monroe, Scott M. and Anne D. Simons. Diathesis-Stress Theories in the Context of Life Stress Research: Implications for the Depressive  Psychological Bulletin, vol. 110, no. 3, Nov. 1991, pp. 406-425. EBSCOhost, 16 Apr 2017. ReachOut.com. ReachOut.com, http://au.reachout.com/. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Student 7 Robinson, Jo, et al. Social Media and Suicide Prevention: Findings from a Stakeholder  Shanghai Archives of Psychiatry, no. 1, 2015, p. 27. EBSCOhost, doi:10.11919/j.issn.1002-0829.214133. Rockville Managing Depressive Symptoms in Substance Abuse Clients During Early . NCBI. 2008. Treatment Improvement Protocol (TIP) Series, No. 48. 16 Apr 2017 Solomon, Andrew. the secret we TED Talk. TED.com. N.p.,October 2013. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.