Student 1 Student L.E. DuBois ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Money Talks In world, a major social concern is the argument of whether student athletes should get paid for their performance on the field, a market which brings in millions of dollars of revenue. The conflict that needs to be confronted regarding this concern is a solution that would satisfy both the goals and needs of both the NCAA and the CAPA organization, which advocates for the treatment of college student athletes as employees that deserve money for their work on the field. The positions that will be covered are the viewpoints of the NCAA, which believes that college athletes do not need to be paid, while the CAPA organization believes that they should be paid, as well as my personal take on the matter. The NCAA (National Collegiate Athletic Association) is a $900 million-dollar organization that helps organize over 30 sports for over 1,000 schools, colleges, and institutes in North America. Their main goal is to help high school student get into college and help those students pay for college through the participation of sports in college. The CAPA (College Athletes Players Association) is an organization that advocates and fights for the college athletes to get paid for their hard work on the court. The main argument that the NCAA holds is that the college athletes are receiving so much money in scholarships, books, meal plans, and housing, that there is no need for extra paychecks that reward their play on the field. The main argument that CAPA holds is that these college athletes are putting their blood, sweat, and tears into this game, as well as having to maintain good grades and having Student 2 more responsibilities than just their respective sport, as well as with all other responsibilities, that they do not have time to get a job and get extra their sport is their job. The goals and views of CAPA are very realistic and make a compelling argument because college athletes are putting in their blood, sweat and, and tears into the game they play and the NCAA gets all the benefits from the revenue they produce from these college athletes. College athletes are the main workers of the NCAA and they see none of the money that comes in from their performance on the field. The fight for the pay of college athletes has been a discussion that has come up recently within the past 5 years. This dilemma hit the spotlight in 2015 when the Northwestern football players attempted to unionize and form the Northwestern Players Union, which was declined by the National Labor Relations Board. This case brought the problem to a national spotlight and really opened eyes and brought in lots of speculation as to why college athletes are not being paid when they clearly do just as much work as the pros, if not more. However, there is the clear conflict of interest here when it comes to question of scholarship money The NCAA argues that it is enough. The NCAA, however, wants to keep the playing field even and keep the integrity of college sports where from money and keeping the passion in the sports. If they begin to pay their athletes, that would take the passion away from the game and college athletes would start to play with extrinsic motivation instead of intrinsic motivation, taking the passion away from the game. The past solutions that have been offered were that extra benefits were given by the NCAA, as before they just paid tuition, they later added on housing, then meal plans, then books, then clothes and gear for their respective sports. Thus, the NCAA argues, that that is over $50,000 a year in benefits that athletes receive, so with that much monetary value being handed to college students, there is no need for extra benefits. Student 3 This is where CAPA comes in and argues all this. The NCAA uses these student athletes to use their talents to sell out venues, gather television views, and sell merchandise from their respective colleges. Sure, the NCAA does provide scholarships and education for these students, but that just enough. As scholarships just cover school costs and account for the countless other costs. the need for school supplies, gas money, money for clothes, money for household supplies, and the need for pocket money for whatever reasons. Regardless of the reason, student athletes need extra money to live an adequate life outside of the simple costs for school, meal plans, and school books. Sure, they could ask mom and dad for money, but for most of these college athletes, their parents afford to send them extra cash for personal spending. They could also get a job, but as most athletes know, there is no time for a job. barely time to sleep. Athletes have an obligation to devote time to practice, and travel to their athletic events, as well as devote time to homework, studying, and going to class, and then you also must include time to eat and downtime to relax from all the stress that student athletes constantly deal with. I firmly stand with CAPA and believe that student-Athletes deserve to get paid at least a minimal salary for their hard work put on the field that generates the great wealth for the NCAA. If it for these athletes sacrificing leaving their hometowns, practicing every day, and limiting their social life, the NCAA would be nothing. These student athletes usually get to go out and party and have fun and do all the things their fellow peers do because of their tight schedules and limited time, which leads to having to prioritize and sacrificing certain things. These athletes deserve this money due to their sacrifices and hard work. no time for them to try and pick up an extra job, so they must struggle through college being broke. a real struggle to be walking around broke with no money, while the NCAA makes millions of Student 4 dollars off your production on the field, and you see none of that money. like a slap on the face, like being used, like a slave to the NCAA. What they consider to be generous compensation is only a fragment of what they profit off these athletes and they need to realize that these students deserve better and not be cheated. We need to act now and voice our concern for a population that is not being heard currently and perhaps being treated unfairly instead by not being rewarded properly for their efforts. To solve this problem, non-engaged stakeholders, such as professional athletes who seek to help their alma athletic association or communities that seek to promote interest in athletics through funding, can help to the solution by helping form funds and organization for college athletes. For example, one solution could be if a non-engaged stakeholder begins a fund or scholarship organization that helps raise money for college athletes. This new source could be an alternative way for them to have an income as it could be allocated adequately to allow these athletes the type of disposable cash that could make the difference between living day to day as opposed to living comfortably. For example, it could be distributed as part of a savings account that allows them to save for their future and teach them economic responsibility. Alternatively, it could be distributed as part of a credit union that gives them the opportunity to build a credit history that allows them to buy a house later in life. This may not be the most optimal solution but it is a compromise both parties could potentially agree upon and a solution that would benefit the student athletes greatly. The viewpoints and goals of the NCAA and CAPA contradict each other, however they both show great care for their athletes. But at the end of the day, these are college athletes that deserve to be paid for their hard work on the field. It is evident that more could be done for these athletes that make so many tough decisions and sacrifices to play college sports. This, in return, Student 5 brings so much revenue to the NCAA, but the athletes see none of that money, so it is as if they are just working for free. College athletes deserve to be treated as employees, just like the pros, for their hard work and dedication, they deserve to be rewarded for their hard work on the field. Student 6 Works Cited Edelman, Marc. 21 Reasons Why Student-Athletes Are Employees And Should Be Allowed To  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 06 Jan. 2015. Web. 29 Mar. 2017. Huma, Ramogi, Luke Bonner, and Kain Colter.  College Athletes Players Association (CAPA). N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Mar. 2017.  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Mar. 2017. Strauss, Joe Nocera and Ben. How Northwestern Football Union Nearly Came to  SI.com. Sports Illustrated, 24 Feb. 2016. Web. 29 Mar. 2017. Thelin, John. Why We Pay College Athletes  Time. Time, 1 Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Mar. 2017.