Simonetti 1 Gianna Simonetti Smith ENC 1101 26 April 2017 CTE Creates a Major Dilemma in Sports Industry After over decade of research on CTE, also known as Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy, researchers have concluded that the best prevention of CTE would be not to participate in contact sports. However, researchers know that the idea of eliminating contact sports nationwide would create many disputes and is most likely very unrealistic. As the shift in focus on the cause of CTE has recently transferred to the NHL, public knowledge of the disease has created a dilemma for many of the players, fans and the families of the players (Guay 882). The NHL needs to realize that the health of its athletes should come before the entertainment of fans and the income from professional sports. The effects of Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy are not only fatal, but progressively destroy the life. The more permanent damage done to the brain, the higher the chance of a person forming the tau protein which is found in the brains of CTE victims. The tau protein tangles itself in other vital cells and destroys the cells leading to degeneration in the brain (Stern 461). This disease is known to affect football players, hockey players, boxers, rugby players, wrestlers and military veterans. Individuals who experience the effects of the disease have symptoms such as; loss of memory, difficulty controlling behavior, unpredictable or erratic behavior, aggressive and depressed behavior, and symptoms that are like forms of dementia. Doctors currently have no way of diagnosing the disease until after the victim passes away and Simonetti 2 an autopsy is done. Scientists tend to struggle with diagnoses and with the media because of inconsistencies with the disease. Symptoms and severity are unique based on the individual and factors that affect the individual through their life, however, the disease almost always ends in death. An astounding 76 of 79 National Football League players and retirees have been defeated by the deadly protein (Breslow). These factors can involve traumatic experiences, severity of and how many head injuries the individual has had. The effects of the actions and the depression caused by the disease often leads the individuals to taking their own life (Hodge 162). Although researchers have been unable to gather a lot of information on this disease, there are many things they know will decrease the number of CTE cases. Researchers have recommended that safety protocols should be revised to protect players. Brain injuries in general are extremely under reported in the NHL. It is the responsibility of the companies to protect their athletes by properly informing the athletes of the dangers of brain injuries and the NHL claims that the players are aware of the risks of playing in the NHL (Hodge 172). However, while they may be fully aware of short term risks and inevitable injuries, they are often left in the dark about the serious long term effects on their bodies. It is also their responsibility to inform those injured of the severity of their injuries and to advise them against returning to play without properly healing. Although the companies agree to inform their athletes, many still fail to do so properly and fully. Another major issue with the NHL is that there is no neurologist on the panel. The NHL panel is made up of commentators, doctors, trainers and managers (Edwards 129). The panels intentions are to help the players be successful and play the best they can. The best interest should always be in the intentions of the individuals on the panel. Without an educated Simonetti 3 neurologist on the panel, players can underreport their brain injuries and continue playing without proper treatment and/or time off (Guay 878). Athletes have a natural inclination to make their team succeed, which cannot be done from the bench and currently there is no neurologist to stop the athletes. It is extremely common that an individual will undergo a brain injury and return to the sport without proper healing time. According to the American Medical Society for Sports Medicine, there are about 3.8 million sports related concussions every year and about 50% of them go unreported. This places a huge risk on the players because if hit in the head again without properly healing, the injury could be much worse and possibly fatal the next time hit (Guay 881). Hopefully by properly educating athletic trainers, coaches and the athletes, the continuation of this issue can be substantially reduced. Unlike the NFL, the NHL has denied that there is even a link between concussions and CTE and refuses to fund any sort of research. A New York Times article by John Branch is titled, NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman Continues to Deny CTE Link. According to Mr. Bettman, science regarding C.T.E., including on the asserted to concussions that you reference, remains nascent, particularly with respect to what causes C.T.E. and whether it can be diagnosed by specific clinical Mr. Bettman is accurate in pointing out that the disease cannot be proven in a living human, however, there is plenty of evidence that repeated head trauma can lead to the growth of the tau protein. To add to the frustration of the denial, players who decide to speak about their experiences with CTE revealed that the NHL is quite knowledgeable on the issue and conducted studies of their own. According to Jeff Parker of the Hartford Whalers, NHL know the game was leaving players neurologically damaged. Between 1997 and 2004, the group examined the link between concussions and brain problems but kept its suspicious Mr. Parkers story Simonetti 4 begins like many, his lifetime of hard work had paid off and his dream of playing in the NHL came true. Being a particularly aggressive player was what stood out about him the most and made him such a valuable player. With all his aggression came many fights and of course, many injuries especially to the face and head. After an intense fight, Parker was carted off the ice with no recollection of the incident. Two weeks later, Parker was allowed to return to the game where he experienced another concussion and instant numbness in his appendages. To this day, Parker and his family must see a side of Parker they never imagined having to see. His brother explains, paid the ultimate price playing hockey, never been the While concealing and denying the connection may not be the best decision for the NHL, the league has an image to maintain and costly lawsuits to avoid. At the end of the day, this is a public health concern. Sports have been around for decades and making changes that can affect how a team does is tragic to some fans. A life should be valued more than the success of a team. Seeing how this disease destroys lives so discretely is heart breaking and unfair. However, without proper research and concrete evidence, making any sort of changes would be unfair to athletes and sports enthusiasts. By athletes agreeing to donate their bodies to science, researchers can find more information on CTE. Both scientists and the NHL need to negotiate with each other to avoid lawsuits and lessen the number of CTE cases. To reduce the number of cases, new safety protocols must be put in place; to get the league to agree with changes in their medical bylaws, scientists must present more evidence and proof of their allegations (Stern 465). Simonetti 5 Works Cited Guay, J. L. (n.d.). The Era of Sport Concussion: Evolution of Knowledge, Practice, and the Role of Psychology. American Psychologist, 71(9), 875-887. Hodge, S. D., & Kadoo, S. (2014). A heads-up on traumatic brain injuries in sports. Journal of Health Care Law & Policy, Vol. 17, 155-186. Hudson, R., & Spradley, B. (march 2016). Concussions: A Sport Ethics Commentary. Sport Journal Iversen, P. (2017, January 25). The NHL reportedly funding any concussion research, unlike its peers. Retrieved from http://www.sbnation.com/nhl/2017/1/25/14393880/nhl- concussion-research-cte-lawsuit-boston-university-gary-bettman-players-association Stern, R. A. (2011). Long-term Consequences of Repetitive Brain Trauma: Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy. Concussion Supplement, 3(10), 2nd ser., 460-467. Zurowski, C. (n.d.). When the cheers died, NHL players were left with badly damaged brains. Retrieved from http://www.citypages.com/news/when-the-cheers-died-nhl-players-were- left-with-badly-damaged-brains-8390950