Newbold 1 Lexi Newbold Maria Theodosiou Composition 1 28 October 2016 How Does Homework Affect Student Academic Achievement? Throughout the twentieth century, the popular opinion of how homework affects student academic achievement in the United States has shifted several times (Marzano 74). From 2000 to 2015, the effects of homework on student academic achievement have changed in thought for how homework should be completed to increase success and which factors affect achievement rates, but have remained consistent in thought for the relationship between the two. There has been a shift in conversation about how homework should be completed to best help a student achieve academically. Before 2010, the grade level of the homework that was assigned helped to determine its effectiveness. In his research article Research to Answer Practical Questions About Harris M. Cooper determined that homework was strongly associated with at the secondary level, but there was no significant relationship between homework and test scores at the elementary level (Table 2). Homework can serve a purpose, but, depending on the grade level of a student, that purpose may not necessarily be greater academic achievement. The research used in the article suggests that at the elementary level, homework is used to teach younger students basic study skills (Cooper 147). Instead of promoting an increase in academic success for that level of education, they would learn the skills that will increase their academic success at future levels of education (Cooper 151). During this time period, homework effectiveness was also determined based on when and, more specifically, where the students completed their homework assignments (Keith 187). In his study Newbold 2 Longitudinal Effects of In-School and Out-of-School Homework on High School , Timothy Z. Keith found that even though many students complete homework during school hours, it does not have an effect on their learning (205). At the same time, students who complete their homework assignments outside of school hours show positive gains in learning (Keith 205). After 2010, researchers who conducted other longitudinal studies found that homework assigned in all grades K-12 tended to aid academic achievement when completed using a scholarly skill- set melded with a personalized approach for each benefit (Bembenutty 469). For example, a student who excels academically may only need one or two practice homework questions to solidify a lesson because they understand new concepts easily. At the same time, another student in the same course may not pick up concepts as quickly and need between ten and twenty practice homework problems to learn the lesson. Both students, however, should complete homework in an environment where they can focus on and absorb the material most efficiently. There are many factors that affect whether or not students at any grade level complete their homework and thus whether or not they achieve academically (Bembenutty 460). The studies of student academic achievement have shifted focus to include other factors besides strictly homework. Before 2010, researchers such as Keith focused on completion, accuracy, and amount of time spent on homework (188). The amount of time spent completing homework is an important factor when determining its effectiveness (Keith 189). Learning success can also be attributed to the amount of homework assigned in total (Keith 189). These situations are only applicable, however, when learning is being defined as high academic achievement or high academic success. After 2010, student behaviors and practices when completing homework were now taken into account. In his analysis entitled Meaningful and Maladaptive Homework Practices: The Role of Self - Efficacy and Self - , Dr. Newbold 3 Bembenutty claims that there is a relationship between homework and a range of self- regulation skills that academic achievement and (Bembenutty 469). He suggests that poor practices are developed to cope with the demands of the homework itself (469). Though the research shows there is a link between homework and academic achievement, there are other factors that should be counted when looking at a success rate. According to Bembenutty, these factors include the amount of parental involvement a student experiences, the physical and emotional health or well being of a student, as well as how available technology may or may not be to a student (470). Though studies throughout the 2000s differ in focus from those of the 2010s, research has continuously proven that there is a positive correlation between homework and student academic achievement. According to the research by Cooper and Keith, before 2010, the positive relationship only existed in certain situations (147 and 205 respectively). Based on research studies completed by Bembenutty, after 2010, the positive relationship existed along with other contributing factors (460). Matthew Planchard, who was the head researcher on Motivation, and Academic Achievement in a College Genetics wrote plainly that there is a correlation [not between homework completion and academic (16). Based on his research, along with study, students who complete their homework effectively tend to have other characteristics and practices that they align with their educations and this combination allows them to achieve academic success. While research continues to prove that homework and academic success are related, there are other factors that make each student unique in determining if completing homework will lead to high academic achievement. Before 2010, homework effectiveness was determined based on factors such as grade level, completion rate, and accuracy. These components were the basis of Newbold 4 how well a student is predicted to do in a given class. After 2010, researchers began to focus on the personal lives of students and their character traits to determine how homework can be the most effective; so a student may do well regardless of any prediction based on homework alone. Newbold 5 Works Cited Bembenutty, Meaningful and Maladaptive Homework Practices: The Role of Self - Efficacy and  Journal of Advanced Academics, vol. 22, no. 3, 2011, pp. 448-473. Cooper, Harris M., and Jeffrey C. Valentine. Using Research to Answer Practical Questions About  Educational Psychologist, vol. 36, no. 3, 2001, pp. 143-153. Keith, Timothy Z., Christine Diamond-Hallam, and Jodene Goldenring Fine. Longitudinal Effects of In-School and Out-of-School Homework on High School  School Psychology Quarterly, vol. 19, no. 3, 2004, pp. 187-211. Marzano, Robert J., and Debra J. Pickering. The Case For And Against  Educational Leadership, vol. 64, no. 6, 2007, pp. 74-79. Planchard, Matthew, et al. Homework, Motivation, and Academic Achievement in a College Genetics  Bioscene: Journal of College Biology Teaching, vol. 41, no. 2, 2015, pp. 11-18.