Benjamin 1 Laurie-Ann Benjamin Instructor Du Bois Enc 1102 April 16, 2017 Physician Assisted Suicide: A Dignifying Act Although deemed to be taboo, physician assisted suicide is an end of life option available to fatally ill persons in certain parts of the United States. However, this option is not easy to come by. Currently, physician assisted suicide, also known as Death with Dignity, is only legal in six states, Colorado, Washington, Vermont, Montana, Oregon, and New Mexico (procon.org). Other states, such as Texas, consider it to be murder and refuse to legalize this end of life option. It is also believed that legalizing this option would cause people who are in abusive situations to be more at risk. On the other hand, in places where Death with Dignity is legal, people are often looked down upon for using this option. They are seen as weak for wanting to end their life early. This needs to stop. Users of this option should be admired for their courage to do such a thing. Lawmakers need to make Death with Dignity legal throughout the entire United States. It allows fatally ill persons to die on their own terms which contributes to the happiness of the patient. Brittany Maynard is a popular advocate for death with dignity. In a perfect world, Brittany Maynard would have been a 29-year-old newlywed looking forward to a long life with her husband and future children. In reality, Brittany Maynard was a 29-year-old newlywed with 6 months to live. She was diagnosed with stage 4 glioblastoma, a condition where malignant tumors develop in the brain (tabers.com). After her diagnosis, she and her family moved from Benjamin 2 California to Oregon in pursuit of death with dignity. When asked why she made the decision to end her life, Brittany explained that it was imperative that she controlled her own death and not be claimed by the disease (A New Video For My Friends, youtube.com). In order to go public with her story Brittany partnered with Compassions & Choices where they both advocated for the legalization of death with dignity in all states. Brittany died exactly the way she wanted to, in her bedroom surrounded by her friends and family. Death with Dignity should be an option available throughout the United States. Legalizing it everywhere would save many the hassle of moving from state to state. Margaret Morganroth Gullette was on the fence about legalizing Death with Dignity until she witnessed her dying process. Her father was diagnosed with Amyotrophic Laterals Sclerosis (ALS), neurodegenerative disease that affects nerve cells in the brain and spinal (What Is ALS, alsa.org). Months before his death, her father went about his usual activities. He made her mother and her laugh and read the daily paper. The month before he passed he became paralyzed and was unable to speak and swallow on his own. He lost the independence he once had. If only this option had been available before things took a turn for the worst, her father could have had a much better passing. After witnessing her loss of independence before his death, Margaret became an advocate for Death with Dignity. In Oregon, 80% of people who utilized this option were cancer patients. Of this 80%, ninety-one percent stated that they did not want to become a burden to their families. In their last stages of life, fatally ill persons become heavily dependent on others to help them do simple tasks such as eat and use the bathroom. They also have special dietary restrictions or may need special equipment to help them move around. This places a financial burden on the family. Another concern fatally ill persons had, were that they would not be able to do things that Benjamin 3 made them who they were Death with Dignity Act, Oregon Public Health Division). In case, he enjoyed making joked and reciting poetry. In his final stages, he was unable to speak. Many people disagree with Death with Dignity as an end of life option. It seems gruesome and inhumane. Maggie Karner also suffers with stage 4 glioblastoma and fully opposes the legalization of Death with Dignity. In a YouTube video, she states that she has the same cancer as Brittany and that was not (End of life- Physician Assisted Suicide, youtube.com). She also says that physician assisted suicide plays on the vulnerability of terminally ill patients by making death look more appealing than living. Maggie Karner has legitimate concerns. Agreeably, this option may expose vulnerable patients to death through abuse. The world is not perfect and physician assisted suicide being used as a form of abuse is a possibility but there are many restrictions in place to combat this. Patients seeking death with dignity must meet independently with two physicians that both declare that the patient has less than six months to live. The patient must also consult with a mental physician to declare that they are mentally competent to make such a decision (procon.org). Another person who openly disagreed with Brittany decision was Pope Francis. He referenced physician assisted suicide to be sin against God, The (CBS this morning, Youtube.com). Another senior Vatican stated that dignity has nothing to do with end life early. He even referenced the entire concept as an (CBS this morning, Youtube. Com). The Vatican sees this as going against God who is a miracle worker in the Christian religion. Christianity preaches about believing in faith. By choosing to end her life, Brittany did not have faith in God to do his work. Benjamin 4 Death with dignity should be legal in all the states. It is an end of life option. The patient does not have to choose this if they do not wish to end their life. Like any social issue, death with dignity has those who agree and disagree with it and it is important to respect opinion. However, people who utilize the option to end their life should not be looked down upon. This decision is not an easy one. The patient must weigh the pros and cons of ending their life and also manage the emotions of their loved ones. Many people want to stay true to themselves to the very end. They want to continue doing what they love and be remembered for all the great things that they did throughout their life. They want the last memories people have of them to be joyous moments For these reasons, lawmakers should legalize Death with Dignity throughout the United States of America. Benjamin 5 Works Cited BobEnyart. Karner On End of Life State-Assisted YouTube. YouTube, 5 Oct. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. CBSThisMorning. mother delivers sharp response to Vatican Criticism. YouTube. YouTube, 16 Mar. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. CompassionChoices. A New Video for my  YouTube. YouTube, 29 Oct. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Oregon Public Health Division. (2011). Death with Dignity Act. Web. 30 April 2017. OWN. Brittany Husband Shares Intimate Details of Her Final Day Where Are They Now  YouTube. YouTube, 14 Oct. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. State-by-State Guide to Physician-Assisted Suicide - Euthanasia -  Should Euthanasia or Physician-assisted Suicide Be Legal? N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. What is  ALSA.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.