Smith 1 Student name ENC 1102 16 April 2015 e-Recycling for the Future The recycling of electronic devices is a social concern, specifically for the environment. The issues that need to be addressed include the improper destruction, or even unnecessary destruction of salvageable devices. There are many effortless ways that the average joe can properly get rid of old devices, and even make a pretty penny from doing so. There have been steps taken in the right direction for recycling, the word just needs to get around about these processes. The e-recycling industry has changed tremendously throughout the years but, recycling of the electronic devices still usually consists of using many harsh chemicals. There have been efforts to reduce the impact of chemicals, such as PCBs, which the most valuable portion of WEEE [waste electrical and electronic and account for about 3- 5% of nearly 50 million tpy global (Kaya 1). PCBs are highly toxic chemical compounds linked to cancer. There have been other studies relevant to this topic, which consider the effects from these processes and global warming. It is important for those unfamiliar with the idea of recycling electronic devices to consider the effects of this because if certain steps are not taken, the Earth could be destroyed for future generations. Although there have been some steps taken in order to try and stop and even reverse the effects of the malpractice of recycling electronic devices, they need to be further refined. This includes the process of how the devices are broken down, and what parts they decide to keep and what parts they decide to recycle. Smith 2 includes electrical and electronic equipment discarded as waste without intent of reuse. Informal e-waste recycling, typically done in smaller, unorganized businesses, can expose workers and communities to serious chemical health (Ceballos 6). From this, global warming has been on the rise due to the increase of greenhouse gases released in the environment throughout the years and the toxic chemicals released into the environment. The recycling of metals, such as those found in everyday electronics, use a harsh process which involves the release of greenhouse gases. GHG accounting includes indirect upstream emissions, direct activities at the MRF as well as indirect downstream activities in terms of reprocessing of the metal scrap and savings in terms of avoided production of virgin (Anna 7). So, although there is a reduced amount of greenhouse gases by recycling, instead of just creating new metals, there is still a sizable amount being created. The recycling creates 12.8 to 52.6 kg tons of CO2, while the creation of metal creates 360 to 1260 kg tons of CO2 for aluminum (Anna 8). This is just the beginning though, big companies, such as Apple and Samsung are stepping up to combat this issue. Apple has created a robot that disassembles phones in a matter of seconds and sorts the materials into separate piles. response to criticism that products are difficult to recycle, the company has unveiled a prototype robot that can take apart old iPhones and harvest valuable materials for (Bamzi 12). This particular robot can take apart an iPhone in just eleven seconds. Apple has collected thousands of iPhones returned to them and recycled them using this robot (Bamzi 13). says it collected nearly 90 million pounds of old iPhones and other electronic waste in 2015, through its electronic-device recycling programs. The haul was enough for the company to recover more than 61 million pounds of material for (Waste360 2). Doing this program has prevented a lot of greenhouse gases from being emitted due to the fact that the recycled parts create less Smith 3 greenhouse gases than making new material does. From the study conducted by Ceballos, they concluded that long-term solution is manufacturing of electronics without harmful substances and easy-to-disassemble (8). The recycling process does not just stop there. There has been research conducted about the amount of e-waste in America, and although it just 2% of trash in landfills, it equals 70% of overall toxic (Kaya 65). Americans have thrown out cellphones containing around $60 million in gold every year. Apple has worked diligently to get back a lot of these precious metals, so have other companies. The issue lies in the lack of knowledge on recycling electronic devices because 12.5% of e-waste is currently and the rest goes into a landfill (Whitecloud 11). It is not just people in America who are affected by the pollution, it is also those in third world countries, which is where some of the electronic devices are produced. global electronics contract manufacturing industry reached a staggering $360 billion of revenue in 2011, and expected to expand to $426 billion by (Loch). The jobs were outsourced to these third-world countries due to the fact that it would be much cheaper to manufacture goods. There have been numerous studies done showing the malpractice going on, which includes illegal dumping of hazardous material, along with child labor. There has been increase in the consumption of fossil fuel as a source of energy in manufacturing and transportation leads to an increase in air (Gurtu 97). Manufacturing procedures and the handling of these manufacturing processes affect water pollution. This is just the beginning of the problems, offshore supply chains use cargo ships, which generate water pollution and cause disturbance in marine and a lot of these third world countries rely on fishing for a source a food (Gurtu 97). Also, if there is not clean water, these countries cannot grow crops or Smith 4 bath properly. The jobs in the third-world countries were there to stay, 4 percent of large companies had future plans for relocating jobs back to the United (Loch). This could spell disaster for both countries, if the country that the jobs are exported to collapses, then this would also ruin the economy of the first world country. If action is not taken, then it could be too late to reverse the damage done to the environment. But, thankfully there has been some prior attempts at a solution made to this rather recent issue. These attempts include Apples program of taking in old phones and then Apple will take it apart and reuse the parts. But, this is not cost effective for the consumer because they are not making any money by giving their device to Apple. There have been some companies that pay you for your old device, but the issue is that there is most likely some illegal dumping of some chemicals, which harm the environments. There are some steps that everyday people can take to ensure proper disposal of certain devices. There are some that cannot be repaired, such as batteries. These can be recycled and the precious metals can be recovered for future use. The most important way that adults can help is by educating the youth about the consequences of not just recycling electronics, but recycling paper, plastic, and other metal objects. The amount of e-waste that America alone produces is vastly larger than what it could be if people were more educated about the short term and long term effects of improper or unnecessary destruction of old devices. It is not hard to recycle old devices, there are even places that pay to take the old devices, which they then either repair or take apart and resell for a profit. To find a local recycling company is as easy as getting on the internet and looking up Recycling near It is one step to learn about recycling, but it is another to actually practice this and encourage others to follow in your footsteps. But, luckily it is not too late to take action Smith 5 and get involved to help fix the environment which was caused by a lack of knowledge (WC 1305). Smith 6 Works Cited Banchiri, Bamzi. Can Recycling Robot Liam Put a Dent in  The Christian Science Monitor, 2016. 22 Feb 2017. Ceballos, Diana Maria and Zhao Dong. The Formal Electronic Recycling Industry: Challenges and Opportunities in Occupational and Environmental Health  Environment International, vol. 95, 01 Oct. 2016, pp. 157-166. 22 Feb. 2017. Damgaard, Anders, et al. Recycling of Metals: Accounting of Greenhouse Gases and Global Warming  Waste Management & Research: The Journal of the International Solid Wastes & Public Cleansing Association, ISWA, vol. 27, no. 8, Nov. 2009, pp. 773-780. Gurtu, Amulya, et al. Effects of Offshore Outsourcing on a  Sustainable Production and Consumption, vol. 7, 1 July 2016, pp. 94-105. 16 April 2017. Kaya, Muammer. Recovery of Metals and Nonmetals from Electronic Waste by Physical and Chemical Recycling  Waste Management, vol. 57, Nov. 2016, pp. 64-90. 22 Feb. 2017. Kumar, Sashi and Shatrunjay Rawat. Future E-Waste: Standardisation for Reliable  Government Information Quarterly, 24 Nov. 2015. 22 Feb. 2017. Loch, Alex. Facts About Overseas American Progress, 16 April 2016. Online. Oliveira, Camila Reis de, et al. Collection and Recycling of Electronic Scrap: A Worldwide Overview and Comparison with the Brazilian  Waste Management, vol. 32, 01 Aug. 2012, pp. 1592-1610. 22 Feb. 2017. Smith 7 PR, Newswire. White Cloud Electronic Cigarettes Announces Recycling  . PR Newswire US, 19 Dec. 2013. 16 April 2017. Tanskanen, Pia. Management and Recycling of Electronic  Acta Materialia, vol. 61, no. The Diamond Jubilee Issue, 01 Feb. 2013, pp. 1001-1011. 22 Feb. 2017. Urban e-Recycling. Urban e-Recycling. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. E-Waste Recycling Programs Recovered $43M Worth of Gold in  Waste360 (Online), 2016. 16 April 2017.