Ragoobar 1 Selena Ragoobar L.E. (Lisa) DuBois ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Project 3 Final Draft Over the years obesity has become an alarming issue for all individuals in the United States. Obesity is a condition in which the body accumulates an abnormally excessive amount of body fat. Many individuals know the appearance of obesity but many are misinformed about the causes and effects of obesity, as well as how to prevent or treat obesity. Obesity is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease which is the leading cause of death in America. Obesity is an issue that should concern all individuals in the United States and should be taken seriously in terms of prevention and treatment. To fight obesity Americans should be educated to create a plan to achieve a healthy lifestyle, with the help of a health advisor, that incorporates, a healthy diet, exercise, as well as achieving a sufficient amount of sleep. It is up to us as Americans to make a difference, step by step Americans can choose to change their life and create a healthier America for the generations to come. According to the article, DeAngelo states that, is a condition in which the body carried excessive and unhealthy amounts of fat tissue, leading the individual to weigh in excess of 20 percent more than his or her ideal (DeAngelo). In comparison to ideal weight 20 percent more is drastic in terms of health risks that come along with such excessive weight. Some health risks include cardiovascular disease, depression, diabetes, musculoskeletal disorders such as osteoarthritis, and some cancers. DeAngelo states that, disease has social, Ragoobar 2 cultural, genetic, metabolic, behavioral, and psychological (DeAngelo). Many individuals who are obese endure stigmas and discrimination in social and work settings. The most common misconception about obesity is that an individual becomes obese due to their high intake of food and lack of exercise alone, but that is not always true. Genetics plays a role in obesity as well. These genetic factors aid in determining whether obesity is present or absent, for example body weight appears to be similar in close relatives. These genetic factors may play a role to affect an levels of hunger, activity, metabolic rate, or food intake (DeAngelo). However, healthy eating and exercise can help counteract these genetic-related obesity risks. Americans who are obese and are susceptible to risks of obesity should confine in a health advisor to create meal and exercise plans to help achieve a healthier lifestyle. Obesity should be a more recognized and more concerning issue than what Americans portray it to be today. According to the Cultural and Biocultural by Alexandra A. Brewis, she describes the several scholars at Arizona State They note that the health effects of obesity are not as grave as the government and public health science claim, so that what should probably be framed as a personal issue has been demonized as a sociopolitical one through stigmatization of Obesity is being undermined as a disease that is not as important as other diseases, however she later concludes that childhood obesity can lead to an obese generation. Research suggests that childhood obesity can be used to predict adult obesity, the obesity rate of children exceeds the obesity rate of obese adults when they were once children. Since in comparison of obese adults versus non obese adults are more likely to raise children with a greater risk of obesity, which may lead to a generational effect in the future (Brewis). This generational effect could possibly emerge when Ragoobar 3 poor eating habits and unhealthy lifestyle habits are passed down from generation to generation. An effective way to help combat these passed down unhealthy habits is to educate the American community on healthy eating, exercise and sleeping habits. Not only can this country face major health risks in the future but also major economic loss due to obesity. According to Brewis, she states, Otherwise, the potentially massive health and economic costs of obesity threaten to engulf entire national economies and reduce quality of life in the years According to this statement obesity threatens the future of Americans a lot more than individuals chose to believe. This has become a concerning issue for many government and nongovernmental foundations and agencies such as, Centers for Disease Control and the World Health Organization. They classify obesity as one of the major global public health issues today and are using large amounts of resources to advocate it (Brewis). Obesity must be recognized and action must be taken to help prevent as well as treat this disease. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) works with schools around the nation to educate the young American community to help students adopt healthy lifestyles. The CDC uses their resources to also works with other private, public, and voluntary sector organizations to help make a difference in the American community. The most effective and common way to prevent and treat obesity in America for Americans to be educated to create a plan to achieve a healthy lifestyle, with the help of a health advisor, that incorporates, a healthy diet, exercise, as well as achieving a sufficient amount of sleep. Organizations such as U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) help Americans be further educated on proper eating habits as well as a healthier lifestyle by creating awareness of obesity as well as implementing Ragoobar 4 their resources in schools and throughout the community. Major risk factors for individuals with obesity are non-insulin-dependent diabetes, hypertension, and cardiovascular disease and manifestations of these disease commonly improve or disappear if the individual succeeds in losing weight. According to the article, and Lifestyle in U.S. College Students Related to Living by Ardrith R. Brunt, key determinant of health status is nutritional intake, since dietary factors are associated with 5 of the 10 leading causes of death in this (Brunt). goal to losing weight is to decrease the intake of amount of calories and increase the expenditure of calories. This can be achieved with a balanced low-calorie diet, but unfortunately for some individuals low-calorie diets can be difficult. However, an alternative is to exercise. According to DeAngelo, pound of fat contains energy equal to about 3,500 calories. If an obese person expends 350 extra calories each day by walking briskly for one hour, it will take ten days for this activity to result in the loss of one pound. In a year, this increased calorie expenditure would result in a thirty-six-pound weight This can be a start for obese individuals who are looking for a long term plan to lose weight. However some more vigorous exercise might not be advisable for some individuals since other health issues are commonly present in some obese individuals such as heart disease, hypertension, and musculoskeletal disorders, which is why it is advised for these individuals to consult with a medical professional. to the article, Activity and Public by Pate R. Russell, US adult should accumulate 30 minutes or more of moderate-intensity physical activity on most, preferably all, days of the (Russell). An hour a day might be difficult for some Americans but research suggests at least 30 minutes of exercise can be sufficient enough. Ragoobar 5 Obesity can be a tough disease to deal with but it can be prevented and treated. It has become a more pressing and important issue that should be treated and prevented for the sake of future generations to come. More education of proper eating habits as well as healthier lifestyle should be implemented to create a healthier America. Individuals who are overweight and obese that want to lose weight should evaluate their diet and lifestyle and consult with a medical advisor to help initiate their modifications to a healthier lifestyle and diet. is up to us as Americans to make a difference, step by step Americans can choose to change their life and create a healthier America for the generations to come. Ragoobar 6 Works Cited Brewis, Alexandra A. Obesity. [Electronic : Cultural and Biocultural Perspectives. New Brunswick, N.J. : Rutgers University Press, c2011. (Baltimore, Md. : Project MUSE, 2015), 2011. Studies in medical anthropology. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ca Brunt, Ardith R. and Yeong S. Rhee. Obesity and Lifestyle in U.S. College Students Related to Living  Appetite, vol. 51, no. 3, Nov. 2008, pp. 615-621. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.appet.2008.04.019. DeAngelo, LeAnna, PhD, et al.  Medical Guide (Online Edition), January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direc =true&db=ers&AN=89093493&site=eds-live. Emmett, Dennis and Ashish Chandra. Understanding Obesity Perceptions in America: An Exploratory Study of Public Perceptions of the Problem and Possible Actions for Health Product  Hospital Topics, vol. 93, no. 4, Oct-Dec2015, pp. 92-98. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/00185868.2015.1120100. Pate RR, Pratt M, Blair SN, Haskell WL, Macera CA, Bouchard C, Buchner D, Ettinger W, Heath GW, King AC, Kriska A, Leon AS, Marcus BH, Morris J, Paffenbarger RS, Ragoobar 7 Patrick K, Pollock ML, Rippe JM, Sallis J, Wilmore JH. Physical Activity and Public HealthA Recommendation From the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the American College of Sports Medicine. JAMA. 1995;273(5):402-407. doi:10.1001/jama.1995.03520290054029