Zhong 1 Wei Zhong Jarad Fennell ENC 1102 08 Apr 2017 Genetically Modified Food For some time now, a heated debate has been ongoing regarding whether genetically modified organisms should be embraced and under what conditions. The world population has expanded immensely and this has brought fears and even real cases of hunger and starvation leading to death. Proponents of GMOs have thus argued that GM crops and animals are the key to being able to feed the global population. This emanates from the numerous benefits attributed to GMOs including higher yield, longer shelf life, higher nutrition, and others. These benefits could indeed be what mankind is lacking of hence his suffering, but something very important is being overlooked. Adequate research and testing needs to be conducted to prove beyond doubt that GMOs are safe for humans and the environment. Unless convincing results are obtained, no one should ever take the risk of consuming GMOs with their safety is yet to be fully ascertained, and knowing that they could harm the environment that is supporting human life. Although a lot of research has so far been done, some safety aspects of GMOs are yet to be uncovered. This could explain why despite assurances that GM foods are safe, cases of toxicity continue to be reported albeit on animal models. This implies that consuming these foods is still risky for humans, unless scientists want to extend the testing models to include humans. Few decades ago at a time when GMOs were being introduced in the US, rats were fed a GMO potato as part of a diet. In only ten days, every organ system in the body of the rats was reported to have been adversely affected by the potato (Norris). Although subsequent research did not report similar results, no convincing report has been given as to what led to the toxicity that was seen in the rats. Further, even though the response of rodents is considered an almost accurate prediction of the case Zhong 2 in humans (Norris), it is a fact that similar research has never been conducted on humans. As such, humans are yet to be sufficiently convinced that GMOs are safe for them and until that time when this shall happen, consuming these kinds of foods remains risky. The fact that no adverse health effects have been reported among the animal models tested so far does not mean that none exists. Once GMOs are embraced and they become a normal and common part of the human diet, there will be little or no opportunity to undo any damage that will have happened, as will be demonstrated below. This is especially considering that there are chances that any effect can be passed onto the next generation. As such, the society should be patient enough to have the safety of GMOs fully ascertained before taking any step towards accepting them (Center for Food Safety). Apart from possible dangers on human health, GMOs also pose potentially immense risk on the environment. In fact, these could be a higher risk than that on human health owing to the fact the environment could be rendered inhabitable to humans, animals, and crops. Life on planet earth would be entirely endangered. One of the issues of concern is that sexual hybridization could occur between GM and non-GM plants by way of pollen transfer. Some studies have so far reported this impact. One such study showed that cross-pollination had caused contamination of wild maize with GM genes that had been added into GM maize (Key et al). Again, although the validity of the research was questioned and later studies did not find such evidence in that center of research, the fact remains that it is still a possibility that cross pollination could occur. There have also been fears that GM plants have the capacity to transform into invasive weeds. Another more recent research, this time conducted in Oregon, US found that creeping bent grass that had been genetically modified to have herbicide-resistant genes had spread by up to 3.8km beyond the designated cultivation area. This effect was attributed to seed dispersal and pollen-mediated sexual crossing (Key et al). Many people do not recognize the dangers brought about by such uncontrollability of GM plants. Essentially, it means that humans would no longer have control over whether to eat GM crops. Different genes, wanted and unwanted, suitable and Zhong 3 unsuitable, beneficial and harmful, could contaminate food sources that humans rely on. This means that the very problem of hunger that was to be solved by using GM crops could be even more intense more so if some contaminated crops were rendered unsuitable for human consumption. Worse still, invasive GM weeds would adversely affect the productivity of other crops and this means that humans may find themselves having to consume these weeds instead of the food crops they prefer (The Society of Toxicity). A huge possibility is that if GMOs are embraced without having control measures in place, humans will someday find themselves missing the original uncontaminated crops they once had. Unfortunately, these will be nowhere to be found. Another important issue of consideration is the impact of GM crops on other forms of life. In one study, it was reported that the insecticidal BT gene found in BT maize (GM maize) had harmed the larvae of Monarch butterfly. This impact happened with the slightest contact between the larvae and the pollen of the BT maize. Despite the fact that subsequent studies did not establish significant related results, enough studies focusing on other animals and GM plants have not been conducted yet (Key et al). Whereas some may dismiss the harm caused on the larvae as insignificant considering that butterflies are rarely eaten by humans, it should be considered that these small organisms are an important component of the food chain. The slightest disruptions in the food chain could destabilize the food sources for humans and lead to hunger (Key et al). Worse still, the need for adequate labeling of GM foods to enable consumers to choose whether to eat GM foods has not been taken with the seriousness it deserves. Consuming GMOs is a risky choice, and people should at least be given the benefit of choosing to do it knowingly. GM foods should be fully labeled such that when a consumer walks into a store, he or she is well informed when picking or choosing not to pick GM food (Bartolotto). It is thus clear that there are still some doubts as to whether GMOs are safe for humans, both the current and the subsequent generations, and their environment. More research needs to be conducted and considering the extensive damage that would occur if unsafe GMOs were consumed, Zhong 4 there may be need to do the research on humans themselves. Unfortunately, such research may be considered unethical. All this makes opponents of GMOs to go back and make reference to what can be done to traditional breeding techniques to increase yields and food production such that GMOs will not be needed. In the meantime, everyone who is concerned with his or her safety, that of his offspring and the environment that support human, plant, and animal life, should promptly act against efforts to introduce GMOs into the food chain before their safety is fully known. Introduction of these organisms is a very risky act, and as such, every effort and time should be taken to scrutinize and analyze them to ensure that neither humans nor their environment are adversely affected. Zhong5 Work cited Bartolotto, Carole. Why Genetically Modified Foods Should Be Labeled. 2013, April 10 Trends in Cell Biology 26. (2016): 890-893. ScienceDirect. Web. 8 Apr. 2017. Center for Food Safety. Are GMOs Safe? No Consensus in The Science, Scientists Say In Peer-Reviewed Statement. 2015, Feb 19. Web. 8 Apr. 2017. Key, Suzie., Ma, Julian and Drake, Pascal. Genetically Modified Plants and Human Health. Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine, vol. 101, no. 6, 2008, pp. 290-298. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2408621/ [Accessed Norris, Megan. GMO toxicity: fears and scientific analysis. 2015. http://sitn.hms.harvard.edu/flash/2015/will-gmos-hurt-my -body/ [Accessed The Society of Toxicity. The Safety of Genetically Modified Foods Produced through Biotechnology. Toxicity Sci. vol. 71, no.1, 2008, pp.2-8 Web. 8 Apr. 2017.