Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 16 April, 2017 Why should you choose adoption? Adoption is the process of being taken in or taken care of by a person who is capable of doing so. There are many forms of adoption such as adopting a child, pet, or a family. This main focus is going to be about adopting unfortunate children who need financial and emotional help and support. According to Robin Chernof, a pediatrician who chaired the committee of foster care, indicate that >90% of the children had an abnormality in at least one body (1). Then, as a society, parents who are in need of a child should seek adoption rather than following other processes such as in-vitro fertilization. IVF is the process of fertilizing an egg with a sperm outside the human body. Any parent who is capable of financially supporting and taking care of a child should consider adoption. Before adopting the child, parents should consider the background and age of the child. The age of the child matters because it would help parents understand the physical and emotional capabilities of a child. In addition, adoption keeps the original parents of the child less stressed when they realize that their child is living with a healthy family. Although many parents would prefer having their own child rather than adopting a child, adoption would not only have a positive impact on a life, but it would affect the society in the future. The adopted child needs emotional help more than physical and educational assistance. Foster children, children living in an orphanage, suffer from high emotion instability. If these children were placed in a loving and caring household, there is a higher chance for them to Student 2 become more stable emotionally. Emotional instability will have a negative impact on a future which will eventually affect the society as a whole. For these reasons, the age of the adoptive child matters. Also, children have a better understanding about life as they grow older. According to Joanna Soares, indicated that the longer the institutionalization, the higher the emotional (50) This shows that parents should consider their capabilities before determining the age of the child they would like to adopt. They should consider their physical and emotional capabilities and not their educational capabilities. As Soares concluded, parents with longer schooling showed higher acknowledgment of differences, but also poorer quality of communication about (53) Education will help the adopted child in school, however it will not have an impact on the emotions. Parents should take into consideration the background before considering adoption. Unfortunately, many wars are occurring in different parts of the world which are causing many refugees to enter the United States. Many of these refuges are children who unfortunately lost their parents. After suffering from a war in their original country, they still suffer in the United States trying to understand the different styles of communication. Children refugees need a caregiver that can provide them with food, shelter, and safety. According to Ketil Eide, the words of Professor Ravi Kohli, a leading expert in the welfare of unaccompanied minors, they to experience safety, belonging and success in their life (Eide and Hjern 668). In addition, research shows that race and ethnicity does not affect the relationship between the adoptive parents and the child. In the beginning, it will take the child a little bit of time to adjust to his new environment. After time, with a little bit of patience, the parents and the child will develop a strong connection. In addition, parents should check whether the adopted child has post traumatic stress Student 3 disorder or not. Most children refugees suffer from post traumatic stress disorder, which is the feeling of being traumatized after a bad experience. According to Samir Quota, prevalence and determinants of PTSD were assessed among 121 Palestinian children (6-16 years; 45% girls and 55% boys) living in the area of (Quota et al. 265) Not only children from wars suffer from PTSD, but children who suffered from sexual assault and physical abuse suffer from this mental illness. Adopting these children and giving them hope for a better future will again effect us as a society in the future. As the article by Eide and Hjern mentions, all what these children need is shelter and hope for a better future. Parents tend to want biological children rather than adoption. Most women want to know what does getting pregnant and giving birth feels like. Parents try their best and pay thousands of dollars just to bring a biological child rather than adopting a child. They tend to do in vitro fertilizations even though the success rate is very low. According to Dmowski et. al., overall PR was 27% per (562) Not only the success rate is very low, but also these tye of fertilizations are very expensive. Also, According to Dmowski et. al., the United States in 1993 there were 31,718 IVF cycles for which the average charge was (540) So, why should parents go through this struggle when they can just adopt a child? In conclusion, parents should always consider adopting when they are unable of getting a biological child. Especially, if both parents were capable of supporting a child financially and emotionally. As for people who are incapable of adopting a child, then you should always try to support these children either financially or emotionally. In addition, in vitro fertilization might be a good solution for parents but it has a very low success rate and it is very expensive. Remember that these children are the adults so they will be affecting the society as a whole. So, providing them with a better future and giving them hope will affect the society as whole. Student 4 Bibliography: Chernoff, Robin, Terri Combs-Orme, Christine Risley-Curtiss, Alice Heisler. the Health Status of Children Entering Foster Pediatrics 93. (1994). Google Scholar. 16 April, 2017. Dmowski, Paul W., Rana Nasiruddine, Janina Michalowska, Jan Friberg, Cynthia Papierniak, Albert El- Roely. effect of endometriosis, its stage and activity, and of autoantibodies on in vitro fertilization and embryo transfer success Fertility and Sterility (3). March 1995. 63: 538-562. Web. 30 April, 2017. Eide, Ketil and Anders Hjern. refugee children Vulnerabilty and Acta Pediatrica 102. (2013) 666-668. USF Library. 16 April, 2017 Qouta, Samir, Raija-Leena Punamaki, and Eyad El Sarraj. and determinants of PTSD among Palestinian children exposed to military Original Contribution 12. (2003) 265-272. Google Scholar. 16 April, 2017. Stolley, Kathy S. on Adoption in the United Princeton 3. (1993) 26-42. Google Scholar. 16 April, 2017. Tan, Tony Xing, Deborah Major, Travis Marn, Eukyung Na, Andrea L. Jackson. country of origin and post parent child relationship quality: Findings from the United States National Survey of Adoptive Parents Children and Youth Services Review. January 2015. 48: 117-125. ScienceDirect. Web. 9 April, 2017.