Student 1 Student Lisa DuBois ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The Impact of GMOs on the Environment Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) have existed in the agricultural system since the beginning of the domestication of plants in the Agricultural Revolution when plants began to be cross-bred to create a superior crop. The corn known today looks much different from the ancient corn first harvested, this is because of cross-breeding and forming that ideal crop. Over the years, organisms have been modified through the use of toxins and chemicals to make them immune to herbicides and pesticides, allowing farmers to spray a large portion of the land and not have to worry about the crops being affected by the chemicals. However, the unwanted vegetation and pests surrounding the crops have also started to build up a tolerance towards these chemicals. This is making it harder and harder to farmers to kill these organisms. Genetically Modified Organisms have caused farmers to augment the amount of chemicals they must use, they go against the laws of nature, and they release these chemicals into the atmosphere which have a negative impact on the environment. As the advancement of technology has grown so has the advancement of GMOs. GMOs do not exist in many crops; however, they exist in many of the main crops that are used to produce many of the products consumed today. Crops like corn, cotton, canola, and that used to create many prepared foods are among the top foods to be produced using GMO (Pimentel). Many of products consumed today by Americans are made by using GMOs, but many of these products are not labeled. The United States and Canada are two of the most Student 2 well developed countries that do not require companies to label their food as being produced with GMOs, whereas many places in Europe and Australia have enforced label laws (Eyes of Nye). GMOs have now been inserted with toxins and other chemicals to produce the results that they want. been planted with herbicide tolerant the other percentage of GMOs have been crossed with pesticide tolerant crops or both (Pimentel). This has allowed farmers and companies to spray pesticides and herbicides over a large area of land and not have to worry about the crops that they are growing. In the past or instead of using GMOs they cannot spray the whole field but must instead be more precise as to where they spray the chemicals which can sometimes result in the hiring of more employees. GMO farmers believe that they can cut down on the cost of their products by using GMOs; however, the release of a such a large amount of chemicals can come with consequences down the road. GMOs go against the natural processes of nature. The majority of Americans are unaware of the processes that take place behind GMOs. 1991 a variety of tomato was engineered with genes from artic flounder to make it frost even though this product was never brought to stores it displays how unnatural GMOs can be The Non-GMO Project fights to protect the rights of consumers to know whether or not a product is produced with GMOs. most changes in agricultural technology, GM crops are not free of (Abbajes). The Non-GMO Project verifies products that are produced without the use of GMOs Most people know or believe to know that GMOs have health effects, but they also negatively impact the environment. As farmers spray herbicides over the field, unwanted vegetation become immune towards these chemicals and then farmers must not only augment the amount of herbicide they use, but they must also augment the strength of chemicals that they use (Genetically Modified Organisms). The herbicide used by most GMO farmers contains Student 3 glyphosate, therefore there has been an increased amount of glyphosate used over the years (Are GMOs Good or Bad?). The increased use of glyphosate impacts the soil around it, glyphosate deprives the soil of its natural nutrients, which can lead to plant diseases killing many of the crops. This does just the opposite as to what GMOs are supposed to do; GMOs were created to increase the number of crops harvested. Also, GMOs have increased the amount of fossil fuels burned because they are so heavily dependent on herbicides which are produced by the use of fossil fuels. The burning of high masses of fossil fuels deteriorates the O-zone layer and results in an increased climate change, which can then impact natural processes of life. GMOs are also dependent on nitrogen fertilizer, which releases greenhouse gases into the atmosphere (Genetically Modified Organisms). After seeing all the impacts that GMOs have on the environment Americans can help the environment by taking a stand on the use of GMO in the products they consume. Many products that are in the super market are not labeled because the United States does not require products to be labeled as made with GMOs. However, there are many products out there that are produced without the use of GMOs that are labeled and/or verified by organizations to be made without GMOs. Purchasing these products and looking for the fine print under the nutrition label will bring awareness to the issue of GMOs and also help preserve the environment for the future generations to come. Many American citizens do not know about the effects that GMOs have on the environment, GMOs are not brought up in discussions and teachings in school like they should be. They play a large hidden role in the agriculture of society and will only begin to grow if nothing is done to bring about awareness to this issue. But the change can start now. It is important to gain knowledge about the process of Student 4 GMOs to understand what someone is truly consuming on a daily basis. Help fight the problem of climate change, purchase GMO-free products and spread the word about GMOs. Ultimately, GMOs have played a large role in the agricultural department. Many of the products known today look much different than when they were first harvested. The majority of American citizens do not know what GMOs are or how they are used to create many of the products that are purchased today. The increased use of pesticides and herbicides serve a great negative effect on the environment. Increasing these chemicals only leads to the emitting of more greenhouse gases, which deteriorate the atmosphere and only lead to more problems that future generations have to solve. But Americans can help future generations know and make a stand towards fighting for best for the environment. Purchasing foods that are labeled or verified by the Non-GMO Project to be produced without the use of GMOs can help spread the word about GMOs. Also, learning more about GMOs and how they are used in agriculture to make the food consumed by the majority of Americans can also help spread awareness about GMOs. With these actions not only others, but companies will become more aware of the impact that they are making on the environment and how it will impact the Earth for future generations to come. As Bill Nye said, farm responsibly, require labels on our foods, and carefully tests these foods case by (Eyes of Nye). (WC: 1207) Student 5 Works Cited Abbajes and Comas and Lumbierres and Pons. the capacity of fields trials to detect the effect of genetically modified maize on non-target organisms through longitudinal Annals of Applied Biology (2016): 184. USF Library. Web. 5 March 2017. Are GMOs Good or Bad? Genetic Engineering and Our Food. Kurzgesagt- In a Nutshell, 30 March 2017. Web. 2 Apr. 2017. Eyes of Nye. Perf. Bill Nye. 13 Nov 2013.Web. 2 Apr. 2017. Genetically Modified Organism(GMO)-Truths and Myths. Mercola, 20 Sep 2012. Web. 2 Apr. 2017. Living Non-GMO: The Non-GMO Project. Web. 20 Jan 2017. Piementel, David. of the Use of Genetically Modified Organisms and Pesticides in Anot Indiana Journal of Global Legal Studies 9(2001): 51-64. Print.