Student 1 Student L. E. DuBois ENC 1102 14 April 2017 The Significance of Fair Energy Market and Control over Large Corporations Every person depends on energy in a variety of its forms people need food to get enough energy for their organisms, they cannot use plenty of devices if they do not have electricity or they cannot drive their cars if they do not have petrol. Energy is one of the primary driving forces of progress and it is vital for the modern society to produce as much energy as possible. However, a thoughtless and careless approach to nature in pursuit of getting energy can have very negative consequences for the planet and the society. This contradiction causes tensions between large petroleum corporations that are often blamed for damaging the nature and state agencies that aim at maintaining fair energy market and making all companies obey environmental laws. These conflicts may seem quite distant to others, but in fact it is very important to understand the nature of these tensions and help to harmonize the processes in the energy market. Meanwhile, it is indispensable that understand the energy market and the principal contradiction. To be specific, we should engage in the conserving energy project and support the US Energy Information Administration; at the same time, the ExxonMobil should be our non-engaged stakeholders. As the citizens of earth, our main responsibility is protecting the energy and establishing a perfect energy market. Energy market is a very complex and multidimensional system. There are a great variety of stakeholders who take part in different processes large petroleum corporations, middle-sized companies, small retail firms, common consumers, state organizations, and many others (Victor 12). This list is very long and sometimes it happens that some of the stakeholders are absolutely unaware of the processes that occur in other spheres of the energy Student 2 market that are not directly related to their activities. It may seem convenient not to leave comfort and take care only of the things that are well-known and easy-to- understand, but it is useful to remember that only an all-embracing and conscious approach can show the way to better and more harmonious development of this sphere (Brown 38). Therefore, even non-engaged stakeholders should understand the significance of fair energy market and control over large corporations. At first glance, a corporation that gives jobs to thousands of people in the Unites States and worldwide and provides millions of people with energy that is used in plenty of spheres is, by all means, good and worth being praised for its contribution to the society. However, the situation may not be as straightforward as it may seem. The activity of ExxonMobil, one of the largest oil and gas corporations, is a bright example that can illustrate this controversy. It is a powerful player in the energy market that gives jobs to more than seventy thousands of people. Moreover, it is responsible for maintaining colossal infrastructure that is crucial for many areas of the Unites States. Any substantial damage to the activities of this company will result in great negative impact on the quality of life of many Americans. Nevertheless, it is quite difficult to answer in which case the damage will be bigger when ExxonMobil is left uncontrolled to develop with the maximum pace or when the state control will decrease its powers and many people are risking to lose their jobs. These problems have led to long-lasting tensions between ExxonMobil and the US Energy Information Administration that tries to maintain fair energy market and also exert every effort to promote electricity and renewable sources of energy (Coll 201). The activities of this agency obviously benefit the society, but at the same time, from the perspective of the oil corporation, it ruins the established patterns of work that causes many difficult problems for the company and makes it fire workers due to the decrease in volumes of productions. Student 3 Nevertheless, the EIA insists on more regulations to large players in the energy market partly due to the dangers that their activities that do not comply with the environmental laws can bring to the nature. To better understand the negative repercussions of too much freedom for large oil and gas corporations, it may be necessary to explore the consequences of oil spills that often happen due to the negligence of such corporations. The cause of the spills is the focus of the corporations on the profits and little attention to the norms of environmental security. They make a terrible damage to the nature. Only one oil spill of ExxonMobil tankers resulted in a tremendous damage to the environment. is estimated the death toll [of Exxon Valdez oil may be 250,000 seabirds, 2,800 sea otters, 300 harbor seals, 250 bald eagles, and up to 22 killer whales. Billions of salmon and herring eggs were also (Moss). Bearing in mind that such spills are not rare, it becomes obvious that the Unites States and other countries should do everything possible to prevent them. It is often argued that oil corporations, such as ExxonMobil, fail to give proper support to alternative sources of energy as their development is likely to ruin their business in oil and gas. They also finance climate change skepticism lobbies to popularize the ideas about the insignificance of global warming (Jones 72). The current trends in the energy market clearly show that renewable energy should become the priority for the future, but the lobby of oil corporations is sometimes so strong that the debates over these issues become obstacles for fair market. renewables-led transformation of the power sector has given focus to a new debate over power market design and electricity security, while traditional energy security concerns have not gone (World Energy Outlook 2016). All these factors make the relations between state agencies and oil corporations quite difficult. However, there are steps that can be made to prevent such damaging consequences for the environment and make oil corporations comply with the laws and regulations. It is very Student 4 important to understand that the required help can come not only from high-profile state agencies, such as US Energy Information Administration, but also from other international energy organizations that are not engaged in these conflicts, small energy companies and common consumers (US Energy Information Administration). One of the key tasks of the EIA is to disseminate reliable information about the activities of the energy market stakeholders (Kearney). This task is also crucial for many environmental organizations that try to make the public familiar with the negative repercussions of too many benefits for such large-scale players in the market. There are many websites where anyone can contribute with their information about the activities of such companies and highlight both their weak and strong points in maintaining harmony in the energy market and protecting the environment. This step can significantly help the public to get a better and more objective idea about the processes that take place in this sphere. This reliable information is also crucial for making right and forward-looking decisions about the types of energy they use and what suppliers they choose (Hopkins). In addition, there are many other efficient ways of harmonizing the energy market, but some of them require deep analysis and very careful approach. It is worth paying much attention to them as these solutions can lead to perfect balance in the market, fast economic development and higher standards of environmental protection. Therefore, it is wrong to think that the efforts of one person or some small non-profitable agency trying to protect the nature from oil spills and other environmental damages is not enough to counteract large corporations. The power of joint efforts is great and it can help the planet to remain as diverse and beautiful as it is now. To sum up, protecting the energy and controlling the energy corporations is the primary task to build our wonderful earth. (Word Count: 1301) Student 5 Works Cited Brown, Charles E. World Energy Resources. Springer Berlin, 2013. Coll, Steve. Private Empire: Exxon Mobil and American Power. Penguin, 2013. Hopkins, Bob. Transition to a World without Oil. TED Talk, Accessed 30 March, 2017. Jones, Christopher F. Routes of Power: Energy and Modern America. Harvard University Press, 2016. Kearney, Diane. Outlook Through Surface Transportation Board, 2010, https://www.stb.gov/STB/docs/RETAC/2010/March/EIA%20AEO%202010.pdf. Accessed 23 February 2017. Moss, Laura. 13 largest oil spills in MNN.com, http://www.mnn.com/earth- matters/wilderness-resources/stories/the-13-largest-oil-spills-in-history. Accessed 6 April, 2017. Energy Information Administration, 2016, http://www.eia.gov/. Accessed 23 February 2017. Victor, David G. Oil and Governance: State-owned Enterprises and the World Energy Supply. Cambridge University Press, 2014. World Energy Outlook 2016: Executive Summary. International Energy Agency, https://www.iea.org/publications/freepublications/publication/WorldEnergyOutlook20 16ExecutiveSummaryEnglish.pdf. Accessed 30 March, 2017.