Sian 1 Sonal Sian March 5, 2017 Composition 1 PAS: Right of Patient vs Role of Doctor In 1994, Oregon became the first state in the US to legalize Physician Assisted Suicide (PAS) when it put into place its Death with Dignity Act. As anticipated, this act had many opponents, as PAS was viewed in a negative light by many due to its ethical underpinnings. Death with Dignity Act forced the end-of-life discussion to arise much sooner than expected and began to alter the physician-patient relationship. Patients who had life-threatening illnesses felt more open to discuss their thoughts and ask for the guidance of their physician for future treatments, palliative care, and/or PAS 2008). As with the implementation of any new effort, the legalization of PAS came with its flaws, though it also enhanced the physician-patient relationship in many ways. Some administrations of PAS have not been completely successful, and organizations such as the American Medical Association still believe PAS to be fundamentally inconsistent with the role of a physician 2008). The overall effect of the act, however, has been deemed a by many Oregon doctors. As exhibited by the state of Oregon, the focus on this subject has transitioned from what the role of a physician encompasses to what do patients have a right to, such as the right to be presented with all viable treatments including PAS. Thus, despite physician assisted suicide receiving harsh criticism from opponents arguing against its ethical viability, it should not be excluded as a valid option for patients suffering from severe life-threatening illnesses. Allowing PAS to be part of hospice services is in no way requiring patients to consider it or doctors to deliver it, but is simply ensuring that a decision to consider such an option Sian 2 is respected. In and physician-assisted suicide: a view from an EAPC Ethics Task the article discuses that the primary goal of a hospice is to provide sufficient palliative care for patients. Thus, making it the duty of a physician to restore and strengthen patient autonomy. Although should respect individual choices for euthanasia and physician- assisted suicide . . . it is important to refocus attention onto the responsibility of all societies to provide care for their elderly, dying and vulnerable (Materstvedt et al., 2003). Again, PAS would only be considered as a last means and it is not something that physicians or hospices would go around prescribing. Similarly, Batavia discusses the importance of providing sufficient personal accessibility services for the severely debilitated so as to prevent PAS requests (Batavia, 2001). As he specifies, the goal must be to provide the patients with enough care that PAS is not needed, however, the presence of that option would not be neglected. PAS would serve as a last resort for those with life-threatening illness with no chance of being cured or surviving without suffering, and denying such a patient the service (which is analogous to making a decision for them) would be taking away the autonomy. However, some opponents of PAS overlook patient autonomy when arguing against its permissibility, contending that it is unethical and contrary to the duty of a physician. A large part of the opposing view is based on the belief that PAS is and (Wittwer, 2013). That there is never a circumstance where suicide could even be a consideration is a large claim that these opponents make, and one that is not necessarily justified. Wittwer goes into great depth discussing the philosophical and ethical underpinnings of these arguments and concludes: false assumption is that it is essentially irrational to kill oneself. . . no convincing justification for this claim has been offered. Thus essentially nothing speaks against the possible rationality of suicide. Moreover something speaks in favor of this possibility: Sian 3 there can be good reasons for someone to want to end her or his (Wittwer, 2013). Wittwer clearly states that it is not always irrational to consider suicide, especially in the case of hospice patients. With the advancement of technology it has been possible to delay death, but extending life simply because it can be done does not mean it should be done. Other opponents of PAS argue that the goal is to restore the health of the debilitated and allowing PAS undermines this goal. In Yang and article, they state that has shifted toward redefining the role of and the inclusion of PAS as part of the duty of a physician will reduce the role of a physician to a mere of (Yang & Curlin, 2016). The dispute here focuses on what the role of a physician encompasses and how PAS fits in that role, disregarding the fact that it is the life that is at stake and the physician is no physician unless he provides services for patients. Simply stated, whether or not the definition of a physician is able to accommodate PAS is not as significant as the needs of severely debilitated patients. Furthermore, PAS is not as large of an issue as many people believe it to be, and its increasing legalization has led to further examination of the effects of the availability of PAS. The article and Practices of Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted Suicide in the United States, Canada, and mentions that PAS is of relatively rare occurrence and is increasingly being legalized in countries such as Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Colombia, Canada, and the United States. From what can be observed, legalization of PAS has not encouraged or significantly increased PAS requests. Per the article, the United States, less than 20% of physicians report having received requests for euthanasia or physician-assisted suicide, and 5% or less have complied. In Oregon and Washington state, less than 1% of licensed physicians write prescriptions for physician-assisted suicide per (Emanuel, Onwuteaka- Sian 4 Philipsen, Urwin, & Cohen, J. 2016). This evidence counterproves the argument that opponents of PAS make in regards to the negative effects of offering PAS, which includes an increase in such requests, facilitations, and hospice patient death rates. With the tight regulations placed on PAS, and rightfully so, the process is a difficult one and aims to ensure that the request is being made voluntarily and in the patients right mind. Per the Death with Dignity Act enacted in Oregon, one of the primary requirements for requesting PAS is that the patient is determined to be terminally ill by his/her primary physician and consulting physician. The definition of here means that the patients illness must be determined to cause death within six months. Patients who have then requested PAS must be informed about the many risks involved, recommended to further counseling if their doctor finds it necessary, and must be offered alternatives to PAS, such as comfort care, hospices care, and pain control. Many times such patients consult various healthcare providers to ensure that they are making an informed decision, uncoerced, and fully aware of the risks it entails. Keeping these details in mind, the process of requesting PAS aims to prevent any decision from being made unnecessarily, but is still available for those who are suffering and need another option to consider. There is no evidence showing a significant increase in PAS in the jurisdictions that allow it or any indication of the abuse of this practice. With all this information suggesting the practicality of PAS as an option, excluding it from patient services would be withholding a patients right to choose from all viable options. Opponents continue to debate the morality of PAS, whereas proponents continue to state the validity of PAS as a right. Despite the ongoing debate, increase in legalization has caused the controversy related to PAS to come to the forefront of the medical world with the examination of the effects of offering PAS not resulting in any disadvantageous findings. The Sian 5 legalization of PAS has not resulted in the increase in deaths as many opponents initially thought, but has been available for those patients who may want to look into that option. As observations and studies have indicated, and although PAS is in no way encouraged for anyone, there are very few drawbacks of implementing such a service for those patients who may be in dire need of it. Sian 6 References Batavia, A. (2001). The ethics of PAS: Morally relevant relationships between personal assistance services and physician-assisted suicide. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 82(12). doi:10.1016/s0003-9993(01)12017-4 Emanuel, E. J., Onwuteaka-Philipsen, B. D., Urwin, J. W., & Cohen, J. (2016). Attitudes and Practices of Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted Suicide in the United States, Canada, and Europe. JAMA: Journal of the American Medical Association, 316(1), 79-90. doi:10.1001/jama.2016.8499 Materstvedt, L. J., Clark, D., Ellershaw, J., R., Gravgaard, A. B., H. C., . . . Rapin, C. (2003). Euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide: a view from an EAPC Ethics Task Force. Palliative Medicine, 17(2), 97-101. doi:10.1191/0269216303pm673oa K. B. (2008, May 12). Oregon still stands alone: Ten years of physician-assisted suicide. Retrieved March 05, 2017, from http://www.amednews.com/article/20080512/profession/305129970/4/ Wittwer, H. (2013). The problem of the possible rationality of suicide and the ethics of physician-assisted suicide. International Journal of Law and Psychiatry, 36(5-6), 419- 426. doi:10.1016/j.ijlp.2013.06.009 Yang, Y. T., & Curlin, F. A. (2016). Why Physicians Should Oppose Assisted Suicide. JAMA: Journal of the American Medical Association, 315(3), 247-248. doi:10.1001/jama.2015.16194 Sian 7 (n.d.). Retrieved April 28, 2017, from http://public.health.oregon.gov/ProviderPartnerResources/EvaluationResearch/Deathwith DignityAct/Pages/ors.aspx