Kevin Fee Fee1 Mrs. Theodosiou Composition II April 10, 2017 Funding for NASA Discontinuing the budget for NASA was a huge mistake. In 2011, the funding for the NASA shuttle program was completely eliminated which was most of their funding. This has caused thousands of people to lose their jobs who help facilitate the research. Since then the funding that it does have does not adequately equate with inflation. NASA has made many important discoveries we take for granted in the last century that we use every day. With growing support for this field and the continuation of funding, society would be able to continue to benefit from discoveries such as developing new technologies, increase our knowledge in science, and discover more about the depths of space. To help support this cause there are many things you can do such as donate to NASA on their website as well as contact our local governor for support. Much of the technology we use on a daily basis was developed by government funded scientists working for NASA. The main reason the shuttle program ended is because it was much to expensive and resources had very low reusability which was predicted to be much higher. One example of an invention we may use in our daily life is memory foam which is most commonly found in Tempurpedic mattresses. This was used to reduce impact in landings for astronauts. Another important invention we use in our daily lives is insulation to keep our homes a certain temperature without using too much energy(Shishko 7). This essential invention was used to Fee2 protect the astronauts from extreme temperature changes as they reentered Earths atmosphere. Without this invention, we(including our family members) would live in uncomfortable temperatures in our own homes. Another invention that NASA scientists have developed is the insulin pump. This was developed to monitor an astronauts blood sugar levels from a distance while also giving insulin when needed. If you or anyone you know has diabetes then you can understand how important this invention can be. Another great technological discovery that was made by NASA scientists was the water filter. We need to consume water in our daily lives for basic survival and the water filter improves the waters quality and overall taste. Shishko, an engineer at jet propulsion laboratory, wrote, filter technology has actually been around since the 1950s, but NASA needed to know how to clean water effectively and to keep it clean for extended periods of time, the reason being that astronauts require a way to cleanse the water they took with them to space because sickness as a result of bacteria would obviously be a massive 4). The water filter has not only benefited the astronauts but also less wealthy countries who do not have access to clean, drinkable water. You most likely use at least one invention created by NASA research, in our daily lives, so this should show the importance of this government funded program. An increase in knowledge of science can open doors to all kinds of things such as an increase in better modern health, as well as better efficiency. NASA administrator Michael Griffon said in the opening of a speech, of the top twenty five scientific breakthroughs that have been discovered in the last twenty years, nine of them have come directly from space travel research and eight directly from 3). These are all life saving capabilities we see Fee3 all around us today. We see this in satellites that track weather patterns and warn us about dangers such as hurricanes as well as more advanced knowledge of climate change and weather patterns. NASA has also helped create more efficient ways of saving agricultural and environmental resources as well as increasing productivity in industries and agricultural yield(Kenneth 6). One of most important primary goals is to discover more about the depths of space and what exists out there other than us. Even traveling to places in our own solar system can give us many more discoveries. This will bring us closer to finding the answers to questions humanity has always asked. People have always wondered and theorized where life on Earth came from and how and why it exists, but no one has a definite answer. To come closer to finding these answers, much more research must be done and funded to get there. White, lead researcher wrote, is the beginning of new era in space exploration in which NASA has been challenged to develop systems and capabilities required to explore beyond Low-Earth orbit, including destinations such as translunar space, near Earth asteroids and eventually 5). Humanity has already made it to the moon and even has the international space station for research now but the next step is for humanity to step foot on Mars. This trip would be much more long and dangerous then going to the moon but much more research would be made which would bring more benefit then harm. Steinberg, part of the department of political science at the University of Houston wrote, and scientific robotic missions have shown that Mars has characteristics and a history similar to but we know that there are striking differences that we yet to begin to 4). The more knowledge we have about Fee4 Mars, the closer we can come to possibly inhabiting the planet and producing resources there. This could be necessary to continue human life from dangers such as larger asteroids approaching Earth. This study can also bring closer relations to different countries that are working on the same issues. Knowledge and reasoning are some of the most important aspects of human life; the more we focus on gaining knowledge, the better it will do for humanity no matter what the short term expenses will be(Steinberg 11). If you agree that NASA should have more funding and think there is nothing you can do to support this cause, then you are wrong. To learn more about NASA and space exploration you can visit Kennedy Space Center located in Cape Canaveral to see real examples of how technology has developed through out the years and the amazing discoveries found. This is important especially if you enjoy learning about how technology to get to space works and some of the challenges scientists faced when researching. Another great way to gain support is to contact your local political representatives such as governors and ask for help and awareness to this cause. To get more information about your local representative, search www.usa.gov/elected- officials then choose either US Representatives or US Senators and then select the ones that represent your state. You will also have much more influence in a group or society relating to space research or exploration and even get involved in groups on your local campus. You can also donate to NASA or any space exploration organization such as Space X. If you choose to do this you must donate through the Government Accountability Office. You must fill out and send a form online to this office with the amount you want to donate. No matter how small your Fee5 contribution is anything helps if more people get involved so spreading awareness is one of the most important things you can do. Overall, the more people realize how important space exploration is, the better off society will be from the many benefits created from it. The technology that has already come from NASA research has helped humanity greatly and could just be the beginning for technological development. More funding will also bring much more knowledge about science and space travel will give us more understanding of what is in the depths of space. Gaining this knowledge will increase human advancement in healthcare as well. There are possibilities of gaining information to make better treatments and even possibly cures for diseases and health issues that have not been discovered yet. Fee6 Works Cited Kenneth S. Casey, Tess B. Brandon, Peter Cornillon, and Robert Evans. The Past, Present, and Future of the AVHRR Pathfinder SST  Springer. Springer Netherlands, 01 Jan. 1970. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Shishko, Robert, Donald H. Ebbeler, and George Fox. NASA Technology Assessment Using Real Options  Systems Engineering. Wiley Subscription Services, Inc., A Wiley Company, 01 Dec. 2003. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Steinberg, Alan. Space Policy Responsiveness: The Relationship between Public Opinion and NASA : The Relationship between Public Opinion and NASA Funding. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. White, Ronald J., and Maurice Averner. Humans in Nature Publishing Group, 22 Feb. 2001. Web. 13 Apr. 2017.