Solano 1 Ariana Solano L.E. DuBois Composition 2 April 16 2017 Take Action Against Sweatshops Every piece of clothing comes from somewhere but many people do not know where that somewhere is. A cheap way for companies to sell clothing is by using sweatshop-like factories. These kinds of factories have long shifts with low wages. This prevents families in the developing countries to get out of poverty and fully support their families. People work to pay for housing, clothes, food and have to be able to support a family. With such low wages in garment factories, it becomes harder and harder to be able to have that support. Not only are those conditions bad but hundreds of workers get injured per year and some even die. USF students buy clothes which can come from sweatshop factories. Many people do not know which brands support what kind of industries. By encouraging USF students to find out which brands support fair labor it can help them choose to shops at these stores. Not only can students choose to shop at stores that steer clear of sweatshop factories like Lush or Patagonia but they can create or sign a petition to show their protest against unfair labor laws. By educating USF students and encouraging them to alter their shopping methods we can give power to companies who strive to empower people in developing countries. While many people are familiar with the term sweatshops and have an idea of what it means, many people are unaware of how this kind of factories impact our daily lives. The US Department of Labor defines sweatshops as factories that violate one or more labor laws. Labor laws have anything to do regarding wages, child labor, working hours, and benefits. While the Solano 2 lifestyle of people living in 3rd world countries relatively does not directly affect the students of USF, it affects the clothing and items used by the students. These sweatshops can be found out of the US in places like China or Bangladesh. Countries like these two have weak governments so they can not enforce labor laws (Tuerk paragraph 9). Students end up purchasing products made from this kind of factories because some popular US name brands use sweatshop-type factories to produce their clothes which are then sold here. By purchasing items supplied from sweatshops it is showing support for all the negative attributes the sweatshop industry holds. People argue how the US minimum wage is far below a livable point yet in developing countries a typically monthly factory worker wage would be around 31 US dollars (Do Something). In Bangladesh, around 3.5 million people work in sweatshop-type garment factories. This makes up almost 80% of the export revenue (War on Want). Not only are around 1.68 million children between the ages of 5-14 working in these types of factories but most of the employees are women. Since this is the case some factory employers even force women to take both control and regular pregnancy tests to avoid maternity leaves (Do Something). While America may have stronger labor laws and regulation this does not mean sweatshops do not exist. There are still hundreds of factories around America providing unfair wage pay, shifts, and benefits. Workers in both factories in the US and in developing countries can have up to 16-hour shifts almost 7 days a week. Constantly working is not good for the body and in many industries workers are required to be on their feet most of the day (Kates 1). Not only is that mentally bad for a person but it is also physically bad. It takes a toll on the overall quality of life. Not only have thousands of factory workers in developing countries been injured but there have been numerous fatalities. People lose their lives to supply an industry fueled by cheap exports. One of the most Solano 3 well-known tragedies happen on April 24, 2013, the Rana Plaza Garment factory in Bangladesh collapsed killing 1115 people and injuring numerous people (Biswas paragraph 1). Within 90 seconds the 8 story factory collapsed killing over 1000 people instantly (The Guardian). People who work in these kinds of settings have no other job option, regardless of how unfair they seem. The use of sweatshops in third world countries should be a concern to the students of USF. Many of the stores that use sweatshop labor can even be found near campus in places like the Brandon mall or International Plaza. By purchasing products from these store students not only support the store use of those factories but the whole industry itself. Some stores in the malls that get their products for sweatshop factories are stores like H&M, Forever 21, Gap, Victoria Secret use labor from sweatshops (Reese). Many people agree that the use of sweatshops is a negative thing but many people are unaware of just how many brands use them. Even though many popular brands do use sweatshops other brands use companies like Fair Trade. Fair trades mission is to help people struggling in poverty and give them empowerment. By shopping at brands like American Apparel, Patagonia, Lush, and L.L Bean student are supported companies like Fair trades. Most of the time there is little to no price difference on fair trade products versus non-fair trade products, so switching habits would not affect students spending habits drastically. If students still wish to shop at stores that get products from sweatshops they can look up petitions or create their own to let those brands know they want to change for where their clothes come from. When students are unsure if a brand uses sweatshops or not it can be easily looked up on the internet. Even though the usage of sweatshop-type factories is such a big thing one individual can make an impact in changing this. Solano 4 There are many ways USF students can get involved with the fight against sweatshops. First students can decide not to shop and support companies that use such labor. This will benefit stores that are sweatshop free, helping the factory workers in 3rd world countries. By supporting stores that use fair trade students directly support fair wages and working conditions. Often the quality of products made through fair trade companies is better. This is because they are not using cheaper material that can be found in sweatshops. Fair trade companies improve the housing, healthcare, and schools for the families who are employed by fair trade (Resource Network). If students can not give up their favorite brands there are other ways for change. Petitions can be signed showing that the people do care about this issue. Students can look up certain petitions like United students against sweatshops (USAS). It is the largest youth run labor campaign being present in over 150 campuses. If they do not find one they were looking for they can create their own or search against on the internet for more options. Lastly, students can show USF that they want to be sweatshop free. Almost every student on campus has at least one USF t-shirt. By signing a petition for a college campus to change its apparel to be made in fair labor condition, not only does this encourage the school to switch over but promotions other schools in the area to do the same. Do Something has created a petition called the Whitey this is a petition that protests for students college apparel to be made ethically and it fair labor laws (Do Something). Students have numerous way to become involved in the fight against unfair labor laws. Even the simplest of actions like signing a petition can go a long way. In conclusion, by educating USF students and encouraging them to alter their shopping methods we can give power to companies who strive to empower people in developing countries. Solano 5 People deserve a fair wage and health benefits regardless of the job they have. No one should become injured or even die over cheap clothing. By supporting a business that uses fair trade companies it shows direct support for the people and shows that USF students stand with them in the fight against unjust labor laws. Word count: 1353 Solano 6 Works Cited 12 Ethical And Sweatshop-Free Brands That Actually Want To  Gurl.com. N.p., 29 Feb. 2016. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Biswas, Animesh, Aminur Rahman, Saidur Rahman Mashreky, Tasnuva Humaira, and Koustuv Dalal. The Scientific World  and Emergency Management of a Man-Made Disaster: Lesson Learnt from a Collapse Factory Building, Bangladesh (2015): 1-8. Web. Do Something. 11 Facts About  DoSomething.org Volunteer for Social Change. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Do Something . Tighty Whitey  DoSomething.org Volunteer for Social Change Volunteer for Social Change. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Fair  Fair Trade USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Hoskins, Tansy. Reliving the Rana Plaza factory collapse: a history of cities in 50 buildings, day  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 23 Apr. 2015. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Kates, Michael.  The Ethics of Sweatshops and the Limits of Choice  Ethics 25.2 (2015): 191-212. Web. Richard Tuerk.  Press (January 2016 ): n. pag. Web. War On Want. Sweatshops in  War On Want. N.p., 23 June 2015. Web. 12 Apr. 2017.