Skeoch 1 Lauren Skeoch Professor Lisa DuBois 13 April 2017 ENC 1102 Drug Abuse Drug abuse is a topic that is and has been discussed widely in the United States as well as throughout the rest of the globe. When students are in school, they are taught the basics on drugs, and given the basic are bad for speech. Yet we see often that these kids who get these speeches are the same kids sometimes who end up with addictions to drugs and lose control of their lives. It causes the people around them to wonder how it is possible to get to that point, and what can be done to help the situation. There are many causes of drug addiction that experts have isolated ranging from interactions with family to previous beliefs about drugs, but one thing is for sure: it is imperative that something is done about it. There are also many recommended treatment options for curing addiction in individuals, but there are also many things that even students can do to help this problem such as spreading the word about addiction, helping friends who may be heading down the wrong path, and even just staying informed about the many ways that USF or other nearby places and organizations can help a person who is struggling. What many experts agree on is the idea that drug addiction is not something that stands alone. Addiction is usually accompanied by psychological issues and that is what stems the addiction, and many individuals use drugs to fill an emotional or psychological void within them. Many experts say that the precursors of addiction actually occur long prior to an abusers first or of illegal drugs. Dean Gerstein and Lawrence Green label these factors of Skeoch 2 addiction in their work Preventing Drug Abuse: What Do We Know? The authors identify these elements as the (Gerstein and Green 43). These factors in a life make them either more likely or less likely to participate in heavy drug usage. The text identifies several identifying interactions with family lending a large hand. More specifically, ones between the parents and their children. Children who have parents that are consistently unstable tend to have one of these deficits and end up turning to drugs due to the instability in the life. Also, children who have that are parents are neglectful or abusive end up turning to drugs due to instability. This begins a vicious cycle where the child will begin to abuse drugs and grow up to raise children in an unstable home like the one that they themselves grew up in. It is nearly impossible to break this pattern once it has begun, and wreaks havoc on all people involved. The text also identifies that certain beliefs that individuals hold about drugs and social circumstances in an life plays a role in the precursors to addiction. For example, students who do not think that drugs will really harm them, are more likely to end up doing them more often than students who believe that drugs are detrimental to them. This is so dangerous because all students need to understand the severity of addiction. In another work by J. David Hawkins, Richard E Catalano, and Janet Y Miller, there are other elements that are identified such as availability of drugs, extreme economic deprivation, neighborhood disorganization, early and persistent problem behaviors, academic failure, and others (Hawkins, Catalano, and Miller 81-83). Something as simple as just one of these deficits in a life can cause psychological issues that lead to the use of drugs, and unfortunately, these issues are prevalent in many lives, meaning that there are many adolescents who are surrounded by triggers for addiction. These small issues in their lives could have big consequences. Skeoch 3 Drug addiction is a problem that affects much more than simply the individuals who are addicted. Neighborhoods that are ridden with abusers are dangerous neighborhoods to live in, because they are also associated with high crime rates and poor living conditions for the people that live in these areas. This is also closely related with gang affiliations in these areas that are riddled with drug addiction. As well as this, many of the healthcare plans that are so expensive are this way because of addiction. According to Gianna Rose from Livestrong, these healthcare plans are so expensive because they need to cover overdoses, HIV/AIDS, hepatitis, and many other drug related health problems (Rose). As well as this, the National Institute on Drug Abuse reported in 2010 that 50-80 percent of child abuse and neglect cases involve drug abuse. This results in many children being placed in the foster care system which costs an estimated $4.3 billion every year (Zill). There are also many immeasurable effects of drug addiction such as family pain and social implications of drug abuse. For example, the pain that a child feels when his/her parent is an abuser cannot be measured, but it is very real. There are many families that are torn apart by drug addiction regularly, and this causes children in these families to be effected and therefore repeat this cycle of instability. obvious that drug abuse is a problem that affects more than just the abuser, but the entire population around them. imperative that drug addiction is taken more seriously, because problem. common knowledge now that drug abuse is a problem, but very few people actually know what can be done about it, or how to prevent it. One of the most important things that can be done is reaching out to those who need it. There are many people whose addiction escalates largely because people continue to pass them by and never bother to get involved in their lives. Many people who are addicted to drugs need someone to get involved in their lives and help them to see that they have a problem. Once someone knows that they have a problem, the next Skeoch 4 thing that should be done is finding the individual a stable support system that will help them become sober. There are many Narcotics Anonymous groups around the world that act as a support group for individuals who struggle with drug addiction, as well as large organizations such as Natural High that work in communities that have high drug addiction rates to help people who need it. There are also many rehabilitation centers such as Phoenix House and others that work by relocating an addict and isolating them from the general public and working with them up close and personally in order to cure their addiction. Many of these organizations that fight addiction are based right in Tampa, and are accessible even to USF students. There are also resources on campus that can be utilized if someone is fighting addiction. The student health services is always a resource for students who need help with addiction. They offer free screenings and you can make an appointment at your convenience to speak to someone. It is very rare, however, for an addict to get help on their own. What addicts need is for someone to help them to see that they have a problem and push them to get better; someone who will the addict accountable for relapsing. Some people believe that they cannot do anything about this issue if they know anyone who is affected by addiction. The good news is that there are plenty of things that someone could do with or without knowing someone who has a problem with addiction. There are many opportunities to volunteer to work with organizations who help people who struggle with addiction, any person could make signs that spread awareness of the issue and post them around Tampa, or on campus, and one of the most important things for people to do that can help others is to simply stay knowledgeable. Know the signs of potential addiction, and intervene when they are first observed. be afraid to reach out when someone needs it. Skeoch 5 Drug addiction is an issue that is world-wide and requires more attention than it currently gets. It affects so many people, yet many simply let people that are struggling with addiction continue to do so. It only takes one person to help someone and change their life around. Experts have identified so many different ways to fall into addiction, and so many different pre-cursors that can pre-determine addiction in individuals. However, it take a lot of effort to raise awareness of the issue, volunteer with an organization who is assisting people who are addicted to drugs, or simply reach out when someone needs it. Say something when it is clear that someone needs help. That alone could be what it takes to stop addiction, one by one. Skeoch 6 Works Cited Abuse, National Institute on Drug. Trends &  NIDA. NIDA, 20 Aug. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Gerstein, Dean R., and Lawrence W. Green. Preventing Drug Abuse: What Do We Know? Washington, D.C.: National Academy, 1993. Print. Hawkins, J. David, Richard F. Catalano, and Janet Y. Miller. Risk and Protective Factors for Alcohol and Other Drug Problems in Adolescence and Early Adulthood: Implications for Substance Abuse  Psychological Bulletin 112.1 (1992): 64-105. Web. Rose, Gianna. Effects of Drug Addiction on  LIVESTRONG.COM. Leaf Group, 24 June 2010. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Zill, Nicholas. Better prospects, lower cost: The case for increasing foster care  Adoption Advocate 35 (2011): 1-7.