Rory Sullivan 1 ENC 1102 L.E. DuBois 4/15/17 Climate Change is Not a Chinese Hoax 2016 it became stunningly clear that we are warming the climate and there are dire said John Sutter, a CNN correspondent (CNN 2016). However obvious it is now, 2016 was not the first year which scientists have recognized the danger of global warming. In 1992, the United Nations introduced and signed the Nations Framework Convention on Climate which would mark the beginning in the international race for reducing carbon emissions (Mitchell 2014). The treaty was created because of increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide over the last half-century was almost twice the naturally occurring rate for the last 150,000 years (NASA 2015). Even with the massive amount of information and decades of evidence supporting human activity accelerating climate change, today only 53% of Americans believe humans have caused the global temperature to spike (Marlon et al. 2017). Lacking in consensus, public policy and progress will not move forward to tackle the problem which 97% of register scientists agree upon (NASA 2017). The universal understanding of the problem is vital for humanity to realize the devastation and crippling features of a future without checking climate change. Countries will be flooded, starved, scorched, or poisoned by the rising temperatures and increased atmospheric carbon. Understanding our impact on the environment from our choice to emit greenhouse gasses at the current level, is required in order to solve the problem of climate change which will devastate the climate, ecosystems, and future. Global temperatures fluctuate and are generally different based on the region and landscape of the given area. However, over the past century the average temperature has risen 6.48 degrees Fahrenheit (NASA 2017). This temperature difference may not seem like a drastic change, but will hold serious consequences. In addition, the extra atmospheric carbon dioxide will have violent effects in aquatic life. In the 1980s the popular opinion on climate change was radical and held a strong minority in the scientific field, at the time only 36% of Americans believed in climate change (Marlon et al. 2017). The beginning of 2 the massive amount of greenhouse gas emissions began with the industrial revolution and need for fuel, added onto by the agriculture revolution (Abrahamson 24). These periods of change brought about advances in our society, but also held an invisible price tag. The new man-produced greenhouse gasses such as; carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide were and falsely represented in (Abrahamson 21). The gasses effects on the atmosphere were not investigated or analyzed until the early 1900s (21). The term greenhouse gas refers to the atmospheric behavior, trapping the heat energy from the sun in the atmosphere (NASA 2017). With the additional heat, climate equilibriums are challenged and ecosystems struggle to survive. Although, the amount of greenhouse gas emissions has exponentially increased over the century since the industrial revolution. Even with the statistical information on the atmosphere, many people currently do not believe in global warming or our part of the problem. Skeptics cite the increase in arctic sea ice or the normality of the levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide to be reasons of doubt for the climate change argument (Goldenberg 56). These claims, like most within the anti-climate change community, are not stable. The arctic sea ice, as seen from satellites, is currently increasing in the Northern Hemisphere by one square mile each year (NASA 2017). Taken without skepticism, this claim would eradicate the idea about ice caps are however the ice seen from the perspective of a satellite does not portray the true story. The ice seen by space is often less than twenty feet thick and created by the melting of the mile-thick ice sheets which use to dominate the Arctic Circle (NASA 2017). There is no doubt in its existence, with many of the hottest recorded years falling into the past decade (CNN 2016). Although images of melting ice and a thicker sky may not be enough to truly make a person understand the size and impact of climate change, it does give an understanding of the problems which society faces. Although Global Warming directly affects the atmosphere and the climate it certainly has indirect effects on humanity. As mentioned before, climate change leads to the melting of the ice caps in 3 the Arctic Circle, this is an example of its direct influence on the environment. An indirect effect of climate change would be the resulting rise in sea levels and the damage done to coastal civilizations. Data recorded estimates that 39-41% of the entire population lives within one hundred kilometers from a coastline, within the United States that statistic is equivalent to 39% (Robert 33). This statistic is important because combined with satellite geological measurements, it can be concluded that less than ten meters of sea level rise would put 35% of the population underwater (NASA 2017). In other words, more than two billion people will need to migrate from their devastated countries and cities (Robert 33). Diasporas induced by climate change are already occurring in cities such as Venice and island countries like the Maldives (Hoffmann 2007). The city of Venice requires little rain in order to overflow its already full canals, and the Maldives have experienced a mass emigration after multiple cities have been consistently flooded and destroyed (Hoffmann 2007). Unfortunately, the immediate sea level rise is virtually unchangeable, with an expected sea level rise of three meters by 2075 (NASA 2017), however future increases in the volume can be prevented by the managing climate change. This is not the only problem which plagues the future, climate change can be linked to famine, drought, and mass extinction. The increased surface temperature of the Earth has led many scientists to conclude that places in the middle east and Sahara desert will be inhabitable to almost all life (Botkin 2007). Although places will be habitable, areas with dry seasons are expected to experience longer droughts and more intense heat. Living in landlocked countries along the equator will be near impossible, and 7% of the human population lives in areas which qualify for expected droughts (Robert 34). Again, the potential of climate change will put hundreds of millions in need of relocation or they will experience mass starvation. Famine is also related to the droughts caused by global warming, because the temperature increase will leave less of the soil arable (Botkin 2007). The people who are left untouched, by the ocean or heat, will be faced with food shortages and huge demand for arable land. Finally, the environment will be devastated by the changes in the atmosphere. The destruction can already be witnessed by the of the Great Barrier Reef, which was caused by the 4 increased acidity (CNN 2016). This change in acidity is linked to the increase in carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, which is absorbed by the water and becomes carbonic acid (Botkin 2007). While people face mass migrations, animals are no different. Over the past two decades thousands of species were forced to irregularly migrate to more suitable places (Botkin 2007). This leads to species invading foreign ecosystems, causing uneven competition and intensifying natural selection. Besides migration, animals are simply going to extinct. Human activity has pushed the natural limits of ecosystems by deforestation and hunting, killing out hundreds of species (Abrahamson 1989). However, climate change could out-do efforts and eradicate entire ecosystems in specific regions (Botkin 2007). It is estimated that 150-200 species of animals go extinct every twenty four hours, this is over 1000 times quicker than the natural extinction rate, and much faster than scientists can discover or record these species (Botkin 2007). The loss of specific animals could lead to a collapse in an entire food chain and leave alpha species, such as humans, without food. A common example is the bumblebee, which struggles to survive due to human intervention. If the bumblebee was to go extinct many plants would go unfertilized and eventually died, leaving the animals who consume those plants to go hungry. Of those planets are; wheat, corn, and soy which provide up to 60% of the food (Botkin 2007). This example is important because the impact of a species going extinct could result in extinction. Humanity and the species alike will have to face the problems of sea level rise, famine, drought, and mass extinction if we do not act soon. Although both the size and possible impact caused by climate change are immense, it is a manageable problem. The root of the problem is our use of fossil fuels in almost all parts of our lives. Petroleum is found in candies, plastics, food, and gasoline, making it almost impossible to completely eclipse from our lives (Chu 2007). Almost every food item in a grocery store was shipped by a freight truck from a farm or factory, all of which requires fossil fuels to power. Gasoline, Coal, and other fossil fuels are deeply rooted within our consumer society. Fortunately, over the past decade more awareness of the climate change problem has created thousands of organizations standing for eco- 5 friendly initiatives and production, bringing a demand for renewable energy and products (Wright 2012). People are demanding more environmentally sustainable ways of life, this could be a solution for the problem of climate change by using less fossil fuels and eating food which require less water or shipping. Currently the U.S. employs one million more people through renewable energy and green products than the fossil fuel industry (U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics 2013). This sizeable difference indicates a change in the economic behavior of the United States, by transferring our focus from primarily fossil fuels to developing such as solar, wind, biofuel, and nuclear. Unfortunately, the political atmosphere of the United States is much different, shifting its priorities on the creation of jobs in the fossil fuel industry. Current President Donald Trump has said concept of Global Warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make the U.S. (Trump 2012). These new claims are very deviated from the Obama administration, and could be disastrous to the environment, if the regulations on carbon emissions are removed. Changing our society begins with the individual, whether the choice is as simply as riding a bike to the grocery store, or is more complex like outfitting a house to be completely solar powered, change starts small. Every person has a voice in the government and if the population is loud enough congress will have to overturn any policy promoted by a fossil-fuel friendly executive administration. No impact is too small to begin the fight against global warming. Although it is massive, the climate change problem is not lost, it can be slowed and managed. The true solution to climate change begins at educating the population of the problem and with an understanding of the desperation of climate change people will be more prepared and willing to tackle global warming. Individually uprooting fossil fuels from their lives, while promoting others to do the same will ultimately solve the issue, however it needs to be done now. 6 The effects of climate change will affect the entire population no matter your wealth, social status, or power. As a planet, not as a country, we need to combine our efforts to slow our temperature increase and work to live sustainably with the environment. As an individual protesting with groups such as Greenpeace, contacting your district or state congressman, spreading awareness in small organizations such as Students for Environmental Awareness, and being totally cognizant of our impact on the planet will lead to a future with natural temperature rise and naturally occurring sea rise. Without the immediate help of humanity, this era of life on Earth is in jeopardy of total extinction. 7 Work Cited Abrahamson, Dante E. The Challenge of Global Warming. Covelo: Island, 1989. Print. Botkin, Daniel B., Henrik Saxe, Miguel B. Richard Betts, Richard H. W. Bradshaw, Tomas Cedhagen, Peter Chesson, Terry P. Dawson, Julie R. Etterson, Daniel P. Faith, Simon Ferrier, Antoine Guisan, Anja Skjoldborg Hansen, David W. Hilbert, Craig Loehle, Chris Margules, Mark New, Matthew J. Sobel, and David R. B. Stockwell. Forecasting the Effects of Global Warming on  BioScience. Oxford University Press, 01 Mar. 2007. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Chu, Steven, and Arun Majumdar. Opportunities and Challenges for a Sustainable Energy  Nature News. Nature Publishing Group, 15 Aug. 2012. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Global  Global Climate Change. Ed. Holly Shaftel and Laura Tenebaum. NASA, 10 Apr. 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Scientific consensus: climate is Global Climate Change. Ed. Holly Shaftel and Laura Tenebaum. NASA, 10 Apr. 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Goldenberg, James. How to Stop Global  Technology Review (1990): n. pag. Print. Green Goods and Services News  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 19 Mar. 2013. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Hoffmann, Justin. The Maldives and Rising Sea  The Maldives and Rising Sea Levels. ICE, 9 May 2007. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Mitchell, Ronald B. IEA Database  IEA Database Home International Environmental Agreements (IEA) Database Project. University of Oregon, 2 May 2014. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. 8 Marlon, Jennifer, Peter Howe, Matto Mildenberger, and Anthony Leiserowitz. Yale Climate Opinion Maps - U.S.  Yale Program on Climate Change Communication. Yale University, 2 Feb. 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Robert, Nicholas J. Coastal Megacities and Climate Change. London: Kluwer Academic, 1995. Print. Trump, Donald (realdonaldtrump). concept of Global Warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make the U.S. 6 November 2012, 2:15 PM. Tweet. U.S. Energy and Employment Report. Rep. Washington: U.S. Department of Labor, 2017. Print. Wright, Joshua. A Broader Look at Fossil Fuels Jobs  Emsi. N.p., 16 Mar. 2012. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. 2016: The Hottest Year on Record. Perf. John Sutter. 2016: The Hottest Year on Record. CNN, 29 Dec. 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017