Sustek 1 Nicholas A. Sustek Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Vitro Testing: A Better Alternative to Animal Testing Many cosmetic companies test their products inhumanely on animals to ensure the products are safe for human use. Animals are burnt, blinded, and sometimes even murdered by these cruel processes. Even after all the suffering the animals go through to ensure we are not blinded, when we use shampoo at the end of the day it may be for nothing. Some products are still unsafe after they have been deemed safe to use via animal testing. Animal testing is an inhumane practice that does not produce accurate results. Imagine your own pet being tested on and how much pain they would be in from their skin being corroded and eyes being damaged to the point of blindness. Tremendous amounts of animals suffer every year from animal testing all the while there are alternatives proven to be better, in every aspect, than animal testing. If you want to help, all you have to do is start buying cruelty-free cosmetics, boycott all brands associated with animal testing, send a letter to your local representative and let them know that you want animal testing to be outlawed, and encourage your friends to do the same. Over 100 million animals have been killed by animal testing (PETA.org). In case you have a hard time understanding the magnitude of that number; if the entire population of 8.4 million people in New York City had 10 pets each, all of their pets would be dead with 16 million pets to spare. That figure does not include the number of animals that have suffered some sort of non-fatal bodily harm. Think about all those suffering living creatures next time when you go to grab shampoo off the shelf. There are many alternatives to animal testing, the best one Sustek 2 being in vitro testing. In an article written by Sarah Addler it is discussed how in vitro testing works and what makes this process better than animal testing. According to Addler, in vitro testing is a process in which scientists take human cell and tissue cultures contained in test tubes and perform all the tests that would be performed on animals on the human cells or tissue cultures. The results are more accurate since it is testing the direct effects on human biology, the cost of the testing process is cheaper than that of animal testing, the results of in vitro tests are obtained much quicker than animal testing, and no animals are hurt in the process (Addler 387). The advantages of vitro testing are clear. The human cells and tissue cultures do not come from human volunteers having their cells and tissues exported by some painful machine. Actually, they do not come from humans at all. According to Hans Ulrich Weltzien, writing for the academic journal of consumer protection and food safety, vitro testing is the better moral choice as well since no sentient beings are harmed emotionally or physically in the testing process as opposed to animal testing (Weltzien 12). The cells and tissues come from a state-of-the-art system that copies the functions of organs and organ systems of humans. These systems produce the cells and tissues that are then inserted to chips or test tubes which is the environment that they will be tested in (Addler 383). The fact that no humans are harmed to obtain the testing materials, and no animals are harmed since they are no longer necessary for testing vitro testing, beats out animal testing in every single aspect. An exact survival rate cannot be determined since rats, mice, birds, and cold blooded animals are not covered by the animal welfare act: in turn their injuries and fatality statistics are not required to be reported. Since those animals make up over 99% of animals that are tested on, it is impossible to tell what the survival rate of the animals are. To give you an idea of just how many animals are murdered by this process, one of Sustek 3 the testing methods they use to determine if a product is safe is that they keep exposing different animal populations to the product until less than half of the population dies from the product. If the positives of buying cruelty free do not convince you, the enormous amount of negative animal testing will. Some products tested on animals may show results of being safe, but then have harmful effects on humans. For example, in a study discussed by the New England Anti-Vivisection Society, or NEAVS, they used animal testing to find if glass fibers were harmful to humans. The experiment showed that the glass fibers were safe. However, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, have determined the fibers were carcinogenic, or contain cancer causing particles (neavs.org). imagine taking a shower in the morning and when you wash your hair with shampoo, then everything goes dark and your permanently blind. By opting out of buying cruelty free products in favor of their animal tested counter parts you risk your own health. If you are not motivated by the suffering of innocent animals, odds are you will at least be motivated by money. According to all-creatures.org the cost comparisons of animal tests and vitro tests for skin corrosivity are $1,800 per assay and $725 per assay, respectively. The cost comparison for genotoxicity, which are tests that show if the substance is toxic to deoxyribonucleic acid, otherwise known as DNA, shows animal tests of chromosomal aberration, or when there is an abnormality of structure or quantity of chromosomes, costs $30,000 per assay where the alternative vitro test is two thirds of the cost at $20,000 per assay. Tests of sister chromatid exchange have animal testing at $22,000 per assay where the vitro alternative test is almost a third of the cost at $8,000 per assay. Tests of unscheduled DNA synthesis are a similar proportion to that of the sister chromatid exchange tests marking animal testing at $32,000 per assay and vitro alternative tests at $11,000 per assay. The cost comparison Sustek 4 for pyrogenicity, which is defined as whether the substance causes fever, put animal tests at $400 per assay and vitro test alternatives at $110 per assay, a mere fourth of the cost of animal testing (all-creatures.org). those big numbers mean that products that are tested on animals are more expensive to produce. If production rates are higher, the overall price of the product will be more expensive. By not buying cruelty free you are hurting your own wallet. Save a few bucks and buy cruelty free cosmetic products. Vitro testing can determine results much faster at a cheaper cost and no sentient beings are harmed in the process. According to the humane society, a vitro test can determine results for a chemical corrosivity test as quickly as three minutes, but typically take hours to days to determine results. Compare that to the speed of animal testing which can take months to years with the quickest results taking weeks to obtain (humanesociety.org). Animals are suffering while there is a clear better alternative. Their pain is not even momentary: animals are in constant pain from animal testing. Their skin is burned, their eyes blinded, they are left to suffer and it is not even an effective process. By buying brands that test on animals, you become an accomplice to the torture those animals go through. You may as well be the one performing the tests. Could you imagine every waking moment of your life is either being locked in a filthy cage or being put on a table to have products burn your skin, every morning hoping this new day will be your last so your suffering can stop. It is time we take action. Sign petitions on the official PETA website, email your local representative, and make the switch to cruelty free brands. We need to help these poor animals because they cannot help themselves. According to John Ubels, vitro testing is the better choice between vitro testing and animal testing since it is done in controlled environments of test tubes so no outside factors could potentially alter the results. (Ubels 131). Products associated with animal testing results can be Sustek 5 severely altered by confounding variables that could be easily avoided by using an alternative cruelty free testing process. Countless animals could be spared from the horrors of animal testing and humans would be safer when using their cosmetic products. According to a blog post on the official huffington post webpage by Troy Seldel, the reason companies continue to use animal testing instead of vitro testing even though vitro testing has proven to be the superior method is because a lot of companies manufacture in China to save money on producing the product. In China, they are required by law to perform animal tests (Seldel). This means any cosmetic product you buy that was made in China has come at the cost of an innocent animals health. Make sure whenever you buy a product it does not say anywhere on the container in By boycotting non-cruelty free products made in China, you will provide those companies incentive to switch to cruelty free testing processes here in the United States. This will save the lives of countless animals and helping the American economy As you can see, animal testing needs to be stopped. The longer you wait to take action, the more animals will be harmed or murdered by animal testing. In order to help, you should stop buying cosmetic products, such as shampoo, that are not cruelty free. You should also boycott brands associated with animal testing like Cover Girl and Avon. Another step you can take to help end animal testing is send a letter or email to your local representative to inform them that you are against animal testing and would like legislation to be passed to end animal testing. Be sure to tell your representative that if they want your vote next election cycle they should pay attention to what you want. Another thing you can do is sign the petition to end animal testing on the official PETA website. Finally, the last thing you can do to help is inform your friends and encourage them to take the same actions you did. Sustek 6 In culmination, if you care about the lives of animals, your own health, and your finances, instead of buying just any shampoo or makeup that you like, buy a cruelty free brand instead. Countless animals will be spared and you will have a safer product. Send a letter to your local representative to let them know that if they want your vote for the next election they need to advocate against animal testing. Sign the petition on the official PETA website and spread the word to all your friends to follow. The more people that join the cause the faster the goal will be achieved. Time is of the essence. Animals are dying at this very moment in the clutches of animal testing, so do yourself, your wallet, and the millions of animals being tortured a favor by taking action now. Sustek 7 Works Cited Adler, Sarah, et al. Alternative (Non-Animal) Methods for Cosmetics Testing: Current Status and Future Prospects-2010.  Archives of Toxicology, vol. 85, no. 5, May 2011, p. 367. test time the humane society, 19 Oct. 2016, Accessed 26 January 2017. testing cost All-creatures, Jan. 2007, www.allcreatures.org/articles/ar-alt-compar.html. Accessed 25 January 2017. New England Anti-Vivisection Society, 12 Dec. 2016, www.neavs.org/alternatives/in-testing. Accessed 26 January 2017. Accessed 3 April 2017. on animals: People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, February 2017, http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for- experimentation/animals-usedexperimentation-factsheets/animal-experiments-overview/. accessed 15 April 2017. Seldel, Troy. China, Cosmetic Animal Testing and Cruelty-Free: Untangling the  huffington post, 16 Aug. 2015. http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk/troy-seidle/china- Accessed 7 April, 2017. Ubels, John L. and Daniel P. Clousing. Laboratory Science: In Vitro Alternatives to the Use of Animals in Ocular Toxicology  The Ocular Surface, vol. 3, 01 July 2005, pp. 126-142. Sustek 8 Weltzien, Hans Ulrich Safe Cosmetics without Animal Testing? Contributions of the EU Project  Journal Fur Verbraucherschutz Und Lebensmittelsicherheit- Journal of Consumer Protection and Food Safety, no. suppl. 2, 2009, p. 41.