Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 30 April 2017 Special Education Mean Special Treatment, or Does It? Working in education has never been easy. Teaching has constantly been evolving for the last few hundred years to stay up to date with new found teaching methods and technology. In the last 30 years, there have been more changes to teaching than ever. These changes include newer forms and methods of teaching. Nowadays there are advanced classes, intermediate classes, regular classes, slower classes, and special needs classes. There have been many issues recently with special needs education because special needs education is a newer form of education. Many special needs teachers have a hard time teaching their material not due to their students having special needs, but because they have too many students and lack of time preparing. These both cause pressure from different sources that the effects the teacher and the students. I believe that special needs teachers should receive more resources available to them then they do now, even though many general education teachers believe that their course load is like that of a special needs teacher. One of the factors that has contributed to the lack of resources is the population of students in special education classes. This number has fluctuated throughout the years, the reason for this is the definition of disability has changed over the years. Now, there are more disabilities being discovered and there are more extensive forms of each disability. This change then means that there is an increase in the number of students in Exceptional Students Education (ESE) classes. Like in general education, the more special needs students there are, the more special education teachers are needed. This is because of the student to teacher ratio, which can often Student 2 sway because of the available qualified teachers and the number of students. In the 2005-2006 school year, student to teacher ratio hit its highest which was 70 teachers to every 1,000 (Sullivan 322). Since then it has hit a steady decline that has not risen since. Because of the lack of teachers available, the ones that are available feel tremendous pressure, not only because of the increase in students in their class, but because to do well in their classrooms. The pressure continues to increase as the budget continues to decrease. In a 2011 article written by Scull and Winkler, they focus on the spending expenditure of special-education and what goes into the salaries of teachers, this accounts for 85 percent of the spending budget. The other 15 percent, then gets divided by all the teachers (Scull and Winkler). Therefore, each teacher gets a small percentage of the money that can then be spent on various essentials like supplies that include necessary learning aids to help the students, as well as classroom decorations and other miscellaneous items that go into the classroom. Many teachers then are under prepared because of the lack of supplies in their classroom due to the lack of funding. The teachers then must decide whether to spend their own money to make their classroom prepared enough, or they decide not to spend the money and be unprepared to teach the required teachings This cycle then continues every year, because there are continuous budget cuts. Another effect of their being a lack of resources is that the preparation in the classroom is inadequate. This is due to many issues that teachers have when it comes to funding and the excessive time commitment that teaching special education requires. If the teachers cannot pay for all the supplies needed for their class, then not all work can be done. Also with special needs education, a lot of the students cannot provide the basic supplies like paper and pencils; teachers then must use some of their budget to buy the basic supplies that most students are able to provide. Special needs teachers also use their planning time and often other such as Student 3 their lunch hour to do extra work. This work includes the Individual Education Program(IEP), which is a document that is developed for public school children that sets the goals for that student and addresses any concerns the student or teacher may have. McLeskey and Flippin said in their journal that when teachers have such a heavy course load, many attempt to leave special education and move into general education. The course load is not the only pressure that teachers have, there is added pressure from other sources. Ingersoll brought the attention up that these other sources can be internal. Such as from other teachers, like general education teachers, the school, and the school board. With constant pressure teachers have a hard time making changes to the course. These changes are sometimes necessary but because of the pacing guide that the school board gives out, teachers must stay on top of it even if their students are failing. If students are failing, then teachers get observed more closely by the school, this leads to different classroom observations. These observations, then cause the stress level to grow, which can cause the teacher to alter the way they seem to teach like a more productive teacher. This is not a new thing in special education, which is why most teachers that have worked in special education move to general education. Although special needs teachers face adversity, they are still teachers. Many general education teachers would argue that although they may have students that could be more difficult to teach, that is their job. Also, all teachers feel pressure to succeed, part of their unknown job requirements. Therefore, it is not just special education teachers that have pressure. Advanced teachers have pressure to have their students pass the state mandated tests and college preparatory exams like Advanced Placement(AP). General education teachers also find it hard to relate to those of special education teachers because they feel as though they have similar interests and complaints (Buell et al). Student 4 There are many reasons as to why special education or exceptional student education made much improvement. These reasons include the fact that special education is constantly getting extreme budget cuts, and what is available enough, and that there is constant pressure on teachers whenever there are unanticipated circumstances. Although general education teachers believe that they have as big of a course load and the same pressure, they These problems need to be fixed to give students the education they rightfully deserve and give teachers the satisfaction that they could help a young life. Student 5 Works Cited Buell MJ, Hallam R, Gamel-Mccormick M, Scheer S. A survey of general and special education perceptions and inservice needs concerning inclusion. International Journal of Disability, Development and Education. 1999. Ingersoll, Richard M. Who Controls Work? Power and Accountability in Schools. Cambridge, MA: Harvard UP, 2006. Print. McLeskey J, Tyler NC, Saunders Flippin S. supply of and demand for special education teachers. The Journal of Special 2004;38(1):5-21. Scull, Janie, and Amber M. Winkler. Shifting Trends in Special  Shifting Trends in Special Education May.2011 (2011): n. pag. Web. Sullivan AL. Disproportionality in special education identification and placement of english language learners. Except Child. 2011;77(3):317-334. Wright, Pete. The History of Special Education Law -  The History of Special Education Law - Wrightslaw. N.p., 29 Nov. 2010. Web. 01 Mar. 2017.