Student 1 Student L. E. DuBois ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Stopping food waste In society, more and more people pay attention to conservation and environmental protection. The topic that is food waste also has entered the attention. People can find the problem of food waste in the anywhere and anytime. Such as, leftovers of home or restaurant and expired food of supermarket. People often have leftovers in home or restaurant, and supermarket also has to throw away a lot of food, because they are not sold before safe data. People and businessmen spend money to buy them, and they also have to pay it to deal with them in the last. This is a vicious circle in the society. Food waste is a serious social problem in the world. As the Natural Resources Defense Council a 2012 report that 40 percent of food had never been eaten in the United States. According to the US Environmental Protection Agency (EAP), there was more than 37 million tons food waste in 2013 in the United States. At the same time, food waste is happening in the American family and college campus. For example, American wasting 144 billion on food for a year, and a college student can waste 142 pounds of food a year. In the United States, American people waste 40% of food supply, but some families are food insecure. In 2014, it had more than 48 million American people were food insecure, including 15 million children. Food waste is also an environmental issue. As 2015 report shows, the United States waste 60 million tons of food a year, and about 32 million tons end up in municipal landfills. The government would cost 1.5 billion dollar for it a year. Food waste is a social cost and it also can make environmental problem, experts says, make food need to cost most water, land and fertilizer. And people threw away most food waste in landfills, when Student 2 people process it, it can make a potent greenhouse gas, methane. From the report, there are about 7 percent of the total emissions for greenhouse gases in the world. About stopping food waste, this is always the primary goal and objective of U.S. Department of Agriculture. In the near future, the USDA has two plans and actions. The one is compost, the other is U.S. Food Loss and Waste 2030 Champions. In the first, the compost can deal with leftovers better. Compost is a basic ally that gives  to your soil naturally. The USDA have the machine to use leftovers to make the compost. Firstly, USDA classify the trash cans and let people know what food can produce compost, garbage collection stations can collectively deliver these food waste to USDA specific department. Then workers classify these leftovers once again, they use the machine to process these leftovers. In the last, they can get the compost, and putting it in the earth can make crops better and healthier, and people also can get food that will be better. On the other hand, the USDA have the action that called U.S. Food Loss and Waste 2030 Champions. In November 2016, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) decided set up action of the U.S. Food Loss and Waste 2030 Champions group (USDA). Many businessmen and organizations joined in this action and they have made a public commitment to reduce food loss and waste in their own operations in the United States by 50 percent by the year 2030 (USDA). Because the USDA and the EAP think a lot of amount of food waste in the United States would have negative influence to food security, resource conservation and climate change. And the government alone cannot deal with this problem, it need to more businessmen and organizations to solve. The Walmart company has a good purpose, save people money and give people better food. But in order to achieve the purpose of their company that is people save money and get Student 3 better food, they purchase a lot of food. But not all sold, because of the shelf life there are a lot of food was thrown away, resulting in a lot of food waste. The one supermarket of Walmart can be produced so many food garbage. Such as, doughnuts and pastries, stalks of still-crunchy celery and bags of bright plump oranges. Even if it sounds like the shopping list, it was all in garbage (CBC). Walmart prepared a lot of good food to buy for people, because of too much food, the kind of food cannot bought by people. When they over the safe date, the food would throw away. The Walmart throw out so many food every day. While staffers found bins full of food at some Walmart locations, other chains had compactors making it impossible to see what they throw out (CBC). The U.S. Department of Agriculture hope people stop food waste, but there is the big company wasting food every day. Maybe the leader of Walmart knew the severity of food waste. The Walmart company is one of member in the action of the U.S. Food Loss and Waste 2030 Champions group. They would commit to reduce food loss and waste in their own operations in the United States by 50 percent by the year 2030. This is a good decision for the Walmart and people, and it is a good starting for fighting with food waste. This explains the Walmart has determination to boycott of food waste. According to the report of USDA and EAP for the U.S. Food Loss and Waste 2030 Champions group, they opposing to food waste and can solve some other problems. For example, they though less food waste to less the social cost. In 2010, U.S. waste a lot of food, about 133 billion pounds of food worth an estimated $161.6 billion. People can avoid this lost in this plan. Walmart can restore the negative image of food wasting in minds, and it also can have less cost in the deal with expired food. This makes Walmart have better expenses in the accounting, and stockholders also will stand by this action. By the way, Walmart also can introduce the compost plan Or two organization get the cooperation to Student 4 deal with expired food. The Walmart can cost less fee to deal with expired food, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture also cost less to get these. The U.S. Department of Agriculture use these expired food to make compost to let farmer have better croppers, people also can get better food in the market. The tow organization can reduce costs and losses, and they can deal with this problem well in the society. In the end, food waste is a serious problem in the society. People should pay more and more attention to this problem. These two organization get many plan and ideas to solve this problem, such as, two plan of the U.S. Department of Agriculture and action. So there must be more organization attention to this problem and will have more and more solution to solve food waste problem. To help galvanize national efforts to reduce food loss and waste, it will require effort and action from the entire food system. In a word, the whole society should pay close attention to the problem of food waste. Only in this way can get the better life in the future. (WC:1230) Student 5 Works Cited Adam, Chandler. Americans Lead the World in Food The Atlantic. Web. Jul 15, 2016 Campus Kitchens Project. Food  The Campus Kitchens Project. Web. 2013 Clair, Christie St. EPA Announce U.S. Food Loss and Waste 2030 United States Environmental Protection Agency. Web. Nov. 17, 2016 Melissa, Mancini, and Nelisha, Vellani. how much food Walmart throws away over 12 CBC NEWS. Web. Oct 25, 2016 Grant, Gerlock. End Food Waste, Change Needs To Begin At WUSF Public Media. Web. Nov 17, 2014 Phil, Wahba. Will Start Selling Fruit to Reduce Food For Ture. Web. Jul 22, 2016 Ron Nixon. Waste Is Becoming Serious Economic and Environmental Issue, Report The New York Times. Web. Feb 25. 2015