Pretty 1 Brandon Pretty Professor Changamire English 1102 11 March 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft The United Nations is an intergovernmental organization that promotes international cooperation between states, nations and NGOs. On the topic of private military and security contractors many within the organization support using them for peacekeeping and military operations. Due to financial and strain on UN forces, they believe it is their moral and ethical duty to support democracies around the world by any means possible including hiring mercenaries. Both pictures explain the financial situation and role of the UN, and the men and women that they hire to perform military-like roles around the world. They explain the dangerous conflicts surfacing around the world and dire situations that many innocent civilians face nowadays. The two images both give an explanation of the position that PMSCs and mercenaries should be used as a rapid-reaction strike force to react quick enough to human rights violations and to protect citizens around the world in any hostile zone. The UN may not be able to protect everyone, but considering PMSCs to help take on this role must be considered for the betterment of the whole world. Without enough UN troops to both protect people and operate at a moments notice, employing PMSCs may be the most practical option. The first photo was taken in April of 1994 of Executive Outcomes contractors taken in another country. The quality of the image gives a hint of the time period it comes from. It depicts over a dozen well armed former Special Forces contractors sitting in a metal tube which could be Pretty 2 attached to a truck. They are rough men whos faces look partially unshaven. Each of them carry military-grade weaponry which are visibly slung across there body with bipods and 100 round ammo cans attached to the bottom. Appealing to pathos the most noticeable part of the picture is the way they look with their grim expressions are grim as if this job is a requirement rather then a choice. You can see this emotion in their faces with only two men glaring at the camera while the rest either look down or consciously avoid it by messing with their gear. In this way a viewer of the image would feel dejected as these men are from normal society. The kairos in this image can be seen with the reference of impending doom suggested by the way the men are closely compact together and their weapons and gear loaded, like they are on a timetable to get to a destination quickly in order to do their duty. The UN Working Group in of Private Military and Security Companies: Regulation and Oversight brings up the issue that war may be becoming privatized and for profit and the lines of humanitarian aid are becoming blurred and and aid assistance organizations are not perceived as neutral, often associated with the intervening intervening force and targeted targeted as (15). This evidence is an appeal to logos and means that PMSCs have a huge impact on human rights and can help decrease violations, a thought which audiences should think when viewing the image. This photograph is a representation of the lengths people have gone to in response to emerging conflicts around the world. It tries to convince viewers that PMSCs similar to those shown in the photo should play a role as a rapid response force of the UN in order to minimize and control these new warzones. The second image is of two UN soldiers standing in front of dozens of South Sudanese refugees, taken in December of 2013. logical to think that these people have much and Pretty 3 are trying to flee from a group as refugees based off of the picture. The UN and humanitarian community even claimed in their Executive Summary that they knew Juba would be caught in the crossfires of fighting, but prepare their defenses against heavy weapon fire or even a way to evacuate civilians (2). The image appeals to pathos by setting a somber tone. It perfectly depicts dozens of displaced families fleeing a war torn area with most only carrying a suitcase in their hands and the close they are wearing. Many of these refugees are looking around warily with fearful eyes which not only contributes to the somberness but adds a fear factor to pathos. Regarding logos the lack of UN troops in the image is evidence that in this situation they were unprepared and unequipped to protect all of the refugees. Both men are armed with old rifles, their vests worn and uniforms surplused by the US military and where all of these refugees are sitting appear to be a proper military base in any way. The Executive Summary stated that poor leadership, lack of coordination, and failure to respond and use forces properly resulted in hundreds of innocent civilians dying (3). This adds to the logos and viewers of the image can make the assumption even without reading the Executive Summary that the UN seems unprepared when forced to act quickly. If international organizations and countries are unable to protect people and stop these threats, the only viable option is to hire PMSCs to take part in some of these roles. Though this is a long stretch even with all four persuasion techniques if an individual is presented with the image and then the question be inclined to agree with the presented alternative. The two images represent not only the inability to perform at peak capacity in ever crisis around the world, but the potential forces they have at their disposal to help them. Many PMSCs are former special forces or highly qualified soldiers who still believe that it is their duty Pretty 4 to save lives and protect civilians and government officials around the world. They photographs just a snapshot to the actions and failure to defend people in the past, but combined they represent what can be our future. The first photo tells a story of how prepared PMSCs are at a moments notice while the second one shows how unprepared the UN is in protecting civilians when forced to act quickly. Together they reinforce talking points from the UN that control over a rapid reaction force maybe should be taken out of their hands and given to more capable and specialized professionals. This way, refugees and those in need of humanitarian aid can be protected and either cared for or transferred to facilities that can help them quickly and with minimal casualties. This is not a decision that can be answered in a single day but something take months to decide if it is the right choice. But the two images speak for themselves and still allow people to take a peek inside a dangerous world so they can decide if the UN should follow through with their proposal of a rapid-reaction strike force to prevent incidences shown in the second picture or if the UN should risk another massacre. They speak to us logically and emotionally to explain the narrative of how they want to use PMSCs in a humanitarian role in hostile areas around the world. Pretty 5 Works Cited Hinedi, Rolla. Nations soldiers stand guard as civilians gather at the compound of the United Nations Mission in the Republic of South Sudan. United Nations Mission in South Sudan, 18 December 2013, UN Working Group on the Use of Mercenaries. of Private Military and Security Companies: Regulation and April 14 2010, Samuels, Taylor. Expert Group Concerned by Mercenary International, 10 November 2011, currentinternational.wordpress.com/2011/11/10/u-n-expert-group-concerned-by-mercenary-acti ity/. Accessed 25 February 2017. United Nations Mission in South Sudan. Summary of the Independent Special Investigation into the violence which occurred in Juba in 2016 and UNMISS response. UNMISS, 1 November 2016, Pretty 6 Image 1 Image 2