Nguyen 1 Van Nguyen Jarad Fennell ENC 1102 Section 041 30 April 2017 Two-Child Policy In China: Is It Better Than One-Child Policy? The first population control policy, the One-Child Policy, was introduced in China in 1979 with the purpose to restrict the rapid growth of the population, and to mitigate major problems such as unemployment and poverty. After the One-Child Policy had been instituted, it received tons of opposing ideas because the policy was the cause of forced abortion and human trafficking in China. In addition, several protests were held by the Chinese citizen to object the Communist Leadership Party regarding the family control plan. As a result, after more than thirty-five years of the One-Child Policy, on October 2015, the Chinese government announced that every couple was allowed to have one to two children, marking the move of this nation from One-Child Policy to Two-Child Policy. While some government agencies such as the National Health and Family Planning Commission (NHFPC) assert that the new policy will end the coercive enforcement of the previous policy, Rights Without Frontiers (WRWF) organization believes that the Two-Child Policy is nothing different from the One-Child Policy. According to the organization, expectant women are still forced to give up their developing babies; son-preference, male-dominance, and gender imbalance are still the main issues in China under the Two-Child Policy. After the announcement of the new policy, most of the people think that the Two-Child Policy has put an end to the coercive population control. However, the news on Life Site Nguyen 2 reported that Chinese government had admitted that forced abortion continued under the new birth controlling plan. According to Li Bo, a member of the Chinese Communist Party, is still illegal for single women to have babies in China, and for couples to have third Li Bo claimed that the Two-Child Policy is not that bad because it appears that there is a fine for those families or couples who want to have a third child. Nevertheless, the fine cannot be afforded easily because it is ten times annual salary. As a result, women are still forced to abort their developing babies when they are pregnant for more than two times. In addition, in July 2016, an article of Sixth Tone reported a Guangdong family was told to give up their third infant or the couple would lose their jobs. Another Guangdong family was told to pay a fine of 260,000 yuan, which is equivalent to $39,000, if they want to keep their third child. However, forced abortion is not the only coercion continues under the Two-Child Policy. In fact, along with forced abortion, coercive pregnancy screening is still being practiced in China. Women at childbearing age are still being checked up four times annually to make sure that they are healthy, and to check whether they are pregnant or not. As one can see, even though the Chinese government has made a move from the One-Child Policy to the Two-Child Policy, the violations to human and rights remain in existence under the new birth controlling plan. The Chinese citizen and people around the world cannot just listen and believe whatever the Chinese government says about the Two-Child Policy. One cannot ignore the fact that everyday, there are hundreds of women who are forced to abort their infants. As a result, this makes China the country with the highest suicide rate in the world. Steven Mosher, a social scientist who advocates for human rights in China, told Life Site a story that he believes is the typical horrors of population control policy: Nguyen 3 The woman on the operating table was nearly eight months pregnant. The doctor picked up a scalpel and made a transverse incision across her lower abdomen. Soon he was through the uterine wall, and removing a perfectly formed baby boy. The little boy was dead, of course, having been killed by lethal injection into the uterus the day before. The story of Steven Mosher is just one in a billion of what is actually going on under the birth controlling plan in China. Forced abortion, forced sterilization, female infanticide, and sex-selective abortion, which are the consequences of the policy, are commonplace in this nation. The Two-Child Policy has taken away approximately 400 million lives of children, a number which is greater than the population of the U.S. In addition, the policy also results in the sex-selective abortion in China. Son-preference and male-dominance are still taking place in this nation, and under the Two-Child Policy, roughly 17% of the Chinese baby girls are killed before or after they are given birth because their parents desperately want a son. This number results in the death of more than 37 million girls in China. Thus, because of the shortage of women, there is aggressive sex-trafficking industry targeting women and in this nation and the nearby countries (Sheila Liaugminas). As a result, about 60% of the sex-trafficking is responsible by China. WRWF is an organization that stands against the Two-Child Policy in China. The organization was founded in 2001 with the purpose to make people all around the world aware of the inhumanity and coercion of the enforcement of birth controlling policy in this nation. Therefore, by exposing the violations of the policy to the public and media, the organization hopes that they could receive more helps from other organizations and people to end forced abortion and gendercide in China, and to support women to win for their rights and freedom. As Nguyen 4 one can see, the lives of baby girls in China are being taken away by the Chinese government and by their parents who are anxious to have a son. Therefore, WRWF encourages people to take an action to abolish the birth controlling plan in China, both the One-Child Policy and Two-Child Policy. There are many ways that one can do to help them stop forced abortion in China. One can join their organization to help WRWF expose the violations of human and rights and make people aware of the inhumanity of the policy. However, it is not necessary to get involved in the organization to support women and girls in China. If it is possible, one can help the organization by informing other people about what one knows regarding the Two-Child Policy. In addition, one can also sign the petition asking to abolish the Two-Child Policy or donate money to save the lives of baby girls: $25 to $300 can help save a life of one baby girl for one month to one year. In conclusion, although the Chinese government has tried to relax the One-Child Policy by replacing it with the Two-Child Policy, the problems in China remain the same. The consequences of the previous policy are not being solved by the new one: women are still being forced to give up their developing babies, gender imbalance and male-dominance are still the major issues in this nation, sex-selective abortion and coercive pregnancy screening are still being practiced in China. Therefore, when looking at the number of children and baby girls are killed under the Two-Child Policy, the number of women who are forced to abort their infants, and the suicide rate, one cannot do nothing about it. People around the world have to stand up together to stop the violation, the inhumanity; to help women and girls in China get out of the prison that is created by the Chinese government; and to set them free. Nguyen 5 Works Cited Liaugminas, Sheila. Blog By Sheila Blog By Liaugminas N.p., 10 Mar. 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Littlejohn, Reggie. Government Sources Admit Forced Abortion Continues Under Two-Child Life Site, 9 Aug. 2016. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Liu, Fuqin, et al. Responses to the Ending of the One-Child Policy in China: Implication for Preconception Journal of Medical vol. 121, no. 4, Nov. 2016, pp. 227-234. Web. 14 Apr. 2017 Mosher, Steven. of pregnant women were forced to I saw it Life Site, 6 Oct. 2014. Web. 14 Apr. 2017.