Student 1 Student Instructor DuBois ENC 1102 30 April 2017 The Importance of the Use and Development of Genetically Modified Organisms As the population continues to increase, the requirement for nutritionally adequate foods consequently follows. In order to meet these requirements, there must be techniques developed in order to produce more food that can provide enough nutritional value to its consumers. Considering a huge portion of the inhabitants live in somewhat impoverished areas, this necessity is especially important in those cases. The primary method of developing more efficient crops and consumer goods is to genetically modify them to produce the desired results. At first this may seem like some sort of science-fiction, but modification of crops has been done for much longer than most know. Bananas have been genetically modified since the mid-twentieth century, and this is just one example of a widely- consumed crop that used to be much more difficult to produce and consume. The main issue that arises with genetically modified organisms (GMOs) is the misinterpretation and misguided dissemination of information of stakeholders whom oppose the use of them. It is important to balance the information received from both sides of the argument, but scientific research strongly enforces the safety and beneficial potential of GMOs Labels: 10 Things You Should Know About These benefits include producing genetically modified crops that can feed larger amounts of people by producing more with higher nutritional value, can actually be more environmentally-friendly than non-GMO products, and can have other qualities that Student 2 improve their distribution and use such as a longer shelf-life and better tastes of GM Because of these important benefits, it is essential that consumers educate themselves on the uses of GMOs and support their production and utilization. In order for every-day consumers to take action and be more involved, they can find research articles in websites such as GMO Answers (www.gmoanswers.com), and become more aware with products and companies that rely on GMOs. When visiting the supermarket, these consumers should keep an eye out for GMO products and show support by purchasing them. When contemporary hot topics such as GMOs are in the spotlight of news and research, there will be many stakeholders that present themselves in support of either side of the argument. GMO Answers is an organization that aims to educate the public on the positives of GMOs, and provides many articles and research conducted that supports their use. They produce their own genetically modified and are partnered with other organizations such as The American Council on Science and Health, The American Farm Bureau Federation, and the American Seed Trade Association Acknowledgement for Although it may be intuitive that stakeholders may hold some biases in support of their cause, GMO Answers and its associated partners aim to spread 100 percent accurate and researched information about the safety of genetically modified crops and foods, especially considering this is usually the biggest argument against their use awareness about the risks of genetically modified food One of the main benefits of utilization GMOs is the fact that more crops can be produced that are more nutritionally valuable of GM Every crop is made up of thousands of different genes that determine its physical and dietary characteristics. GMOs are Student 3 produced by modifying a select few of these genes to enhance the crop, and this is directly responsible for the benefits found in genetically modified foods (Powell). Consequently, this highlights the importance of supporting the production of these products as they can feed the millions of malnourished people throughout the world more efficiently than their non-genetically modified counterparts. As mentioned earlier, bananas are a great example of how genetic engineering can be used to create crops that can be more easily consumed by more people. Bananas used to be full of seeds and were highly susceptible to pests, but they were genetically modified to produce more edible areas without seeds and become resistant to these pests The Bananas We Eat Today Are Genetically Modified From ONE Single Another reason for the necessity of supporting GMOs is how they can be more environmentally-friendly. Genetically modifying crops can provide them with numerous advantages that will decrease the amount of damage done to the soil and environment around them used to produce them. These include conserving water by having crops with increased water retention, and also decreasing the amount of carbon dioxide emissions as a result of needing less tillage to harvest the crops (Hall). Additionally, genetically modified crops can produce a significantly less amount of pollution due to the fact that they are more efficient at absorbing the nitrogen fertilizers that are used to grow them. As a result, the fertilizers that would not have been utilized by non-genetically modified will not contaminate water sources and soil surrounding the plantations (Hall). Considering the fact that the crops can be resistant to pests, there will be a much smaller need for environmentally-detrimental pesticides that will damage the soil used (Stallman). In addition to the previously mentioned reasons to support GMOs, the fact that they can last longer and taste better than non-GMOs enforces the importance of backing their Student 4 development. Keeping in mind that specific genes within the genomes can be altered to change the way they age and taste, scientists have been able to increase the shelf-life of them as well as improve qualities that improve their taste of GM The shelf-life of GMOs is directly related to the ability to resist contamination by pests such as fungi and bacteria (Hall). Additionally, certain genes that control the texture, flavor, aroma, and other physical characteristics of genetically modified crops can be engineered to be more appealing for consumption of GM Foods that are more pleasing to the consumer are more likely to be supported and purchased, which goes hand in hand with the purpose of producing GMOs. Ultimately, the benefits of GMOs far outweigh the fears of lack of safety outlined by opposing organizations. The fact that more can be harvested with less, less environmental damage is caused, and improved product quality are just a handful of reasons for the support and development of genetically modified products. Also, meddling with the genome of consumer goods may seem dangerous, but there are various tests that must be passed and requirements that must be met before these products are offered to the public (Stallman). GMOs are researched and monitored by multiple scientific organizations that gain nothing from their development, and this should enforce the fact that GMOs merely serve to improve the lives of consumers worldwide. There is still much room for improvement, but scientists and researchers must continue to be backed in order for GMOs to progress in order to become even more beneficial. In order to back and support these scientists and GMO products, consumers should focus on purchasing these goods when shopping. (WC:1283) Student 5 Works Cited The Bananas We Eat Today Are Genetically Modified From ONE Single Simple Capacity, http://simplecapacity.com/2016/03/all-bananas-we-eat-today-are-genetically- modified-from-one-single-banana/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Acknowledgement for GMO Answers, https://gmoanswers.com/about. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. of GM UC Santa Cruz, https://classes.soe.ucsc.edu/cmpe080e/Spring05/projects/gmo/benefits.htm. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Labels: 10 Things You Should Know About GMO Answers, https://gmoanswers.com/studies/beyond-labels-10-things-you-should-know-about-gmos. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Hall, Kate. Ways GMOs Make Agriculture More Environmentally GMO Answers, https://gmoanswers.com/studies/6-ways-gmos-make-agriculture-more-environmentally- friendly. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Powell, Chelsea. to Make a Harvard University, http://sitn.hms.harvard.edu/flash/2015/how-to-make-a-gmo/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. awareness about the risks of genetically modified food GMO Awareness, https://gmo-awareness.com/resources/anti-gmo-groups-america. Accessed 4 Mar. 2017. Stallman, Bob. not Fear: Why GMOs Deserve our N.p., 6 April 2015. Accessed from http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/healthcare/237883-food-not-fear-why-gmos- deserve-our-trust.