Gruman 1 Taylor Gruman Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Time to Take Action What do you think of when you hear marijuana? Some people think about delinquent children, criminals and unmotivated individuals but time to change that image. Marijuana became illegal in the early 1900s for several different reasons. The main reason, which seems too often surprise people, is because hemp from cannabis plants was being used for materials like fabric and wood. This may seem like a good thing, but it was actually putting companies out of business because it was often cheaper than other materials. Back then, the fact that marijuana was able to cause a gave people the ability to push for its illegalization. Since this time, research has shown that medical marijuana has many benefits and should be legalized for medical uses. Medical marijuana has the ability to change many lives for many different reasons which is why it might be time to change image about this so called Cannabis has the opportunity to help people that are suffering from cancer, depression, glaucoma, insomnia, and many other life changing diseases. Recreational use has shown no real results for benefiting the everyday, healthy citizen, but maybe time to stop picturing marijuana as a recreational substance and start thinking of it strictly as aa medication. As a community that believes in helping one another, it is time to get informed about medical marijuana and help to make a change. Marijuana is more than just a substance that is used to get it has many medical benefits and it comes in many different strands. Each strand contains different levels of THC Gruman 2 which is the substance that causes people to get Sativa strains are more commonly thought of when the common person thinks of due to the fact that this is what most prefer to its higher THC (Atakan 241). Stoners often times give marijuana a bad name but due to new forms of technology, it is very possible to obtain marijuana that is low in THC (meaning little to no but still high in a chemical known as CBC. Basically this means that the strand can be manipulated to minimize the and maximize the beneficial chemicals. Not everyone reacts to marijuana in the same way but a study done by Zerrin Atakan, proves that CBC has shown as well as effects and is considered a potential antipsychotic He also claims that marijuana has beneficial effects for patients dealing with diabetes, cancer and neurodegenerative (Atakan 242). Basically what he means by this is that marijuana has shown evidence of reducing anxiety, helping with psychotic disorders such as schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, as well as pain that accompanies cancer and other disease. Other studies have also shown that cannabis extract (OCE) is in regards to multiple sclerosis (MS) (Koppel, Brust, et al.). More than 2.3 million people suffer from MS worldwide, 2.3 million people that need your help (NationalMSSociety). Marijuana is currently illegal for recreational use in almost every state but studies show that 14 million people use the substance recreationally every day (norml.org). If 14 million people are using the substance regardless of the law, why we want to at least utilize the substance to our advantage and be able to help people. These diseases are just some of the ones that can be helped through medical marijuana use, but the list continues and so do those who are suffering. People are suffering across the country, your friends, neighbors, war heroes, and plenty of other people that you know and love. Fortunately, you have the ability to help them. People Gruman 3 can have been giving marijuana a bad rep for too long and it is time for a change. We come from a society where most people believe in helping their neighbors, friends and even complete strangers and now you have the chance to help. If the idea of medical marijuana still seems completely absurd then you should know that veterans a day commit you should also know that a study done by the ASA shows that states that have legalized marijuana have shown a five percent reduction rate in suicide due to its benefits regarding depression and PTSD (AmericansForSafeAccess). That means that legalizing marijuana has to ability to save lives, and that what the purpose of medicine is? If you could help to save just one life, you? In 2015, suicide was the second leading cause of death for United States citizens between the ages of fifteen and thirty-four (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). over 12,000 people that could have possibly benefited from medical marijuana. Suicide is a huge problem and not even the only disease that can be helped from this substance. As explained in the previous paragraph, marijuana has the potential to help cancer, MS, schizophrenia, bipolar patients, and many more. millions of people whose lives could change forever from just one form of medication. Imagine having to suffer every single day from pain, nausea, fatigue, little to no appetite, depression and more. That sounds awful it? Well unfortunately what cancer patients who are experiencing chemotherapy have to deal with. you help them if you had the ability to? Thankfully you can, you have the ability to take action, to fight for those who you can change the lives of so many people by supporting the cause to help legalize medical marijuana! The best way to help with the legalization process of medical marijuana is to take action and it is both easy and quick. There are many different organizations that are working hard to make a change in our community and you can help them by simply donating to the cause. The Gruman 4 organizations include, for Safe Organaization for the Reform of Marijuana Policy and many more. The main goal of all of these organizations is to help educate the public and push for medical marijuana legalization. There are also more active ways that you can get involved. The most suggested form of action is write letters to state officials expressing your views on the subject. The more people that show support for the cause, the better chance we have at making a difference. There is power in numbers! You also have the opportunity to volunteer to help any of these organizations, as well as many others who support the cause. Finally, most pro marijuana groups hold different activities that you can attend to help support the organizations. These events can range from information sessions to community walks. For more information on how you can get involved, as well as information regarding the substance, you can visit any website that is affiliated with medical marijuana organizations. time to action and save lives! Medical marijuana has to ability to change lives for citizens across the country and even help people worldwide. It has been proven to assist those that are suffering from cancer, MS, depression and so much more. As of right now there are several states that have already legalized medical marijuana but we stop until everyone across the country has access to this life changing medication. The best way to help assist in the substances legalization process is to get involved with organizations, such as NORML by donating to the cause and getting involved. Together we can change lives and save lives. Gruman 5 Works Cited Atakan, Zarrin. a complex plant: different compounds and different effects on Ther Adv Psychopharmacol, vol. 2, no. 6, 2012, pp. 241-254. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. https://webappa.cdc.gov Grant, Igor. Atkinson, Hampton. Gouaux, Ben. Wilsey, Barth. Marijuana: Clearing Away the The Open Neurology Journal, vol. 11, no. 6, 2012, pp. 18-25  National Multiple Sclerosis Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. http://www.nationalmssociety.org/ Koppel, Barbara. Brust, John. Fife, Terry. et al. review: Efficacy and safety of medical marijuana in selected neurologic American Academy of Neurology, vol. 82, no. 17, 2014, 1556-1563. Medical  Americans for Safe Access. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. http://www.safeaccessnow.org/ Working to Reform Marijuana  The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Norml.org