Matich 1 Jakob Matich Professor Mariama Comp 2 2/27/17 Rhetorical Appeals: Government Surveillance With the increase in technology, whether it be cell phones or street cameras, government surveillance has become a growing issue in the United States. The government is able to access many electronic platforms including emails, phone records, and video recordings that has many believing it is putting at stake the right to privacy as U.S. citizens. One of the main opposition to government surveillance is Against which is a coalition of organizations advocating for transparency and an end to mass surveillance. According to the Beachwood Reporter, coalition aims to inspire constituents to hold their elected officials accountable on mass surveillance reform, as well as give lawmakers the opportunity to improve their (beachwoodreporter 1). Many efforts are taken by Stand Against Spying to put an end to mass government surveillance, which include pictures that they produce to help do this. The two pictures chosen accurately shows what they are fighting for, demonstrating 2 different groups of people fighting strongly for the cause with many different signs and slogans, and in two different settings. These images help the stakeholder in displaying their message by showing unity in fighting, a sense of being constantly watched is not acceptable, and that a call to action in putting an end to mass surveillance must be brought forth now. Both images selected are taken directly from the section of the Stand Against Spying website, in which image A is under the section dealing with what the organization is Matich 2 fighting for, and image B is under the section depicting the direct goals of this organization. Image A depicts a group of several people with picket signs and other forms of propaganda fighting for their beliefs with what looks like the Capitol Building in the background. What stood out at first is how the image uses a great sense of logos, directly portraying the signs with the message of what they stand for, not necessarily revealing much about the people holding such signs. This is key for this part of the section that deals with what they stand for, as it trying to display anything else other than their message. Most of the signs say Mass whereas other say things such as You, Edward or Watching The signs each have bold font that stands out in either black or red and may also depict exclamation points, each of which uses a sense of Kairos to depict their message in which something must be done now before it is too late. According to the of references are prevalent in political and social 93). Furthermore, a sense of ethos is used in this image as the protest taking place is clearly massive, and is in Washington D.C. as the Capitol Building is shown in the background. To the viewer of the image, this appeal is used to show how a great amount of people are clearly fighting for this issue, and have even made it all the way to our capital to do so. Image B is also found in the section of the Stand Against Spying website, under where it states its goals as an organization. The image, as like the one previously analyzed, also depicts a group of people protesting for this cause, while also putting forth its goals as an organization for what they want to accomplish. The group protesting is smaller compared to the one previously analyzed, however can be more appealing as it consists of many different people of different backgrounds all fighting for the same cause. This is using pathos as it shows the unity of many people, showing how anyone who feels what is happening is wrong can make Matich 3 their voices heard in any way possible. The large banner in the front of the picture that the protestors are holding states exactly what the overall section of the website is about, which is the goals of the organization. The banner says Constitutional Watching and Mass all goals portrayed throughout the website. The letters on the banner are all presented in large, bold writing, also showing how a solution must be brought forth now. What stands out on this banner is that each is lowercase, perhaps to stand out as metaphorical eyes that are watching you, which may make the viewer of the image feel they are constantly being watched. A sense of ethos is present in the image as the official logo of the organization is front and center in the banner, which is a hand in a stop sign inside of a giant eye that is look at the watching the protest. Both images analyzed are clear representations of the organization in which they show what they stand for and what their goals are as an organization. The first image has the subtitle We Stand in bold, stand out font underneath it, which means that they used that picture specifically to show just that, with description underneath. According to the Stand Against Spying website under this section, it states that, believe that democracy and freedom thrive when Constitutional values and human rights are (Standagainstspying 1). The image accurately depicts what the organization stands for as it shows a mass protest in front of the Capitol with signs showing what they are fighting for and how their voices must be heard. Furthermore, the second image has the same format on the website as the first, as the subtitle Goals For This is found underneath and demonstrates that the picture and the text underneath will be used to represent and describe specific goals of the stakeholder. According to the website, goal of the congressional scorecard is to raise public awareness about the surveillance debates taking place right now and to create public pressure on Matich 4 individual members of Congress and the president to take significant steps to reform NSA spying in light of the information the public has learned over the past (Standagainstspying 1). The stakeholder plays a very important role in the downfall of mass surveillance, and with the use of pictures such as the ones analyzed, the organization can continue to appeal to those outside of the subject as well as those willing to join the fight. Word Count: 1085 Works Cited Matich 5 The Beachwood Reporter. Against N.d. n.p. Web. Accessed 25 Feb 2017. McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Pathos: Appeals to  Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context. By Kendra G. Lee. Ed. Jason Carabelli and Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1-238. Print. Stand Against Spying-About. N.d. n.p. Web. Accessed 28 Jan 2017 standagainstspying.org/about/. Image A Image B Matich 6