Student1 Student L.E. DuBois ENC 1102 16 April 2017 More Effective Way for Depression In this day, the depression has become the general problem in daily life. Many people have depression but they can not find good methods to treat this disease. A lot of people suffer from depression, and the increasing of suicide could not be stop as well. Now solution to depression is mainly medical therapy and psychological treatment. However, people can not sure which treatment is more effective for he patients. The disease is the need for medication or not need medication. There are also some people who will publicly say do not want medication, only willing to accept psychological treatment. Or that psychological treatment is useless, do not take medicine can not cure well. Most people are divided into two  - some people tend to medical treatment, does not recognize the role of psychological treatment; and the other part of the people are more inclined to explore the psychological motivation of patients, so that the illusion of delusion Also seen as an inner projection to be analyzed and refused to have medication. Severe depression after medicine control, the state also needs psychological treatment after steady. It is also important for the community to understand and accompany. The fundamental solution is to change their inner understanding, only that way depression can be completely cured. Student2 Since the beginning of 2012, the body level began to retreat on the second line, the psychological level of growing concern; the other hand, according to the World Health Organization reported that at present, depression has become the fourth largest disease, is expected by 2020, depression will become Second only to the second largest disease of cardiovascular disease. In some people opinion, medical treatment has many advantages: such as the use of convenient, treat the disease faster. What is the method used to treat, can not be generalized, should be based on the actual situation of the patient to decide, an important principle is that in the course of treatment do not hurt the patient, while the maximum to give treatment. From Psychotherapy for Depression (Karasu, T. people noticed that general psychotherapy before the choice of psychological treatment, the treatment physician should be detailed understanding and analysis of history, including the personality, life events, social relations and behavior. Because the drug treatment even now well, if the future encounter what is not happy things like this, or learn how to keep a happy mood is the most important. is a long-term negative emotional accumulation of the outbreak, therefore, only to change our habit of causing negative emotions in the psychological model, to resolve the psychological complex, in order to achieve a real (Depression, the secret we share (TED)) This is not a denial of the role of medical, in the inevitable stage of depression, medical intervention will play a role in improving and control. To this end, we can not be limited to one-sided, psychological treatment and drug treatment which is better, both are very important, but we have to understand Student3 what the final direction is. If our psychological model does not change, even if the recovery through the treatment of medical, but in the future life, our view of things, the reaction model, and the same will have the same emotional reaction, once the emotional accumulation beyond Our psychological load, depression will once again broke out. To understand that a mind, thinking can not be changed through medical. my case counseling, patients who come into contact with a lot of repeated medication, in order to maintain a stable state, sometimes not repeated dressing or increase the dose, they did not really get rid of depression through Mechanisms of Change in Psychotherapy for Depression: An Empirical Update and Evaluation of Research Aimed at Identifying Psychological Mediators.) If our current depression is undergoing drug treatment, then patients need to listen to the guidance, but patients should also cooperate with the system of psychological counseling, and patients need to pay more attention to changes from the psychological level. It is not comprehensive to judge that depression is commonly used in the so-called introverted and outward-looking. In fact, the so-called internal and external character is only a relative performance. The real measure of a mental health is the size of a emotional accumulation, the degree of persistent  (greed, disgust, sensitivity, worry, doubt, impatience, perfectionism) Not simply a measure of introversion or extroversion. Simply speaking, the less the accumulation of a emotions, the less persistent, his health is healthier, so, the more will stay away from depression. A considerable number of depressed patients, a considerable Student4 number of people before, are  outgoing personality, but the fact is that they can not extricate themselves into depression. Introverted and outgoing people have persistent heart, if the dedication of the expansion of a person beyond the psychological load, it will be the outbreak of depression, anxiety and other symptoms. From the psychological development point of view, depression is caused by the acquired factors. In this regard, depression is the focus of multiple negative emotions only. To understand that the human emotional reaction is only the idea of ideas or the mentality of the product only, that is, people hold things on what kind of view, there will be what kind of emotions (feeling). A values, morality, view or mentality is the day after growth formed. As a Karasu said: Give me a baby, I can make it into any type of person, he can become a mentality optimistic, positive people; can also become a mentality of negative, pessimistic Sorrowful man, he can become a surging host; can also become a tacit (Psychotherapy for Depression). A new generation of authoritative psychologists in the United States Helen Schumann and William Sai study shows that: All of our psychological pain is from the past to form the  The so-called genetic disease heredity refers to the growth experience in the family environment, interpersonal patterns, educational methods and other factors have followed and passed the phenomenon of unhealthy relationships in different intergenerational transmission, the same family relationship model, ideas, atmosphere often cause the family to appear the same psychological problems. Many mental illnesses did not find the biological sense of genetic inheritance, and heredity is only family members of the relationship between the model Student5 Antidepressant medicine for some serious depression patients can be faster so that they return to normal. However, fundamentally speaking medication is a temporary solution, if not through psychological adjustment to change the character of depression caused by defects, Depression is recurrent For call to actions, people should constantly encourage patients to give hope that bad thoughts and feelings, just a negative state of all this will We should not urge the patient as soon as possible to adjust their own, but repeatedly relieved  to stay patient, giving more time to patients. Depression is very sensitive to patients; life is likely because of a word, a move, one thing to produce psychological fluctuations. Therefore, we should pay attention to their own words and deeds in front of patients, to avoid the psychological stimulation of the patient. Medicine can sometimes reach the role of mitigation and control of the disease, but the psychological problems you want to be cured need to actively find ways to change the internal thinking mode, to build a reasonable and positive thinking mode, so as to achieve a complete self-healing Confidence is the foundation of all, especially in the treatment of depression. Depression is not terrible; bad thing is the loss of confidence in the fight against depression. As a rehabilitation patient to share the rehabilitation of the words do not give up their own, you will be able to get out of depression, compulsion, anxiety  As long as we firmly believe that the world there is no insurmountable spiritual hardship. Too many depressed patients have eaten many years of medicine, especially those with obsessive-compulsive disorder, not only the problems are not resolved, but the more serious symptoms, the Student6 patients and their families have a serious impact. For really getting out of depression or other psychological problems, psychological adjustment is essential. (WC: 1365) Student7 Work Cited Karasu, T. Byram. Psychotherapy for Depression. Northvale, N.J. : J. Aronson, c1990.,1990.EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.as px?direct=true&db=cat00847a&AN=usflc.027098940&site=eds-live. Depression Public Service Announcement (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZyCAG9TPBNA) Depression, the secret we share(TED) emmens, Lotte H.J.M., et al. Review: Mechanisms of Change in Psychotherapy for Depression: An Empirical Update and Evaluation of Research Aimed at Identifying Psychological  Clinical Psychology Review, vol. 50, 01 Dec. 2016, pp. 95-107. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.cpr.2016.09.004. Lieberman, E. James. Edelstein, Michael R. & Others. Therapy Breakthrough: Why some Psychotherapies Work Better Than  Library Journal, no. 18, 2013, p. 107 Franciotti, Kevin. Psychedelic Drug Helps  New Scientist, vol. 232, no. 3103, 10 Dec. 2016, p. 8