Buckler 1 Joseph Buckler Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Video Games and Technology in Education In our ever-changing society, video games and technology have become more prominent in everyday life. In our youth especially, new technologies are becoming a greater part in their everyday life, with their inclusion even being found in schools. There are some people who view this inclusion as having a negative effect, making children unable to focus on simple tasks; however these technologies have been proven to have a positive effect on children. Whether it be the direct inclusion of games as part of education, or the use of new technologies such as iPads to help aid traditional education techniques, this of education is a step in the right direction. Proponents of this use of technology site it as being a effective means of delivering individualized, up-to-date learning content which is aligned with innovative teaching (Kucirkova). With what is available in society, the inclusion of video games and technology in education would show a beneficial impact on early education in children and teach them new skills, without them into becoming addicted to video games. Whether or not the inclusion of technologies in early education is beneficial for children has been a debated topic over the past decade. If a class room in the early is compared to a class room in 2017, the difference will be quite noticeable. Technologies and video games have become a large portion of education, especially in its early stages. Despite what many people Buckler 2 believe, video games and technology prove to be a benefit to education. games require players to learn how to play them, and good video games do an exemplary job of making this learning fun and (Arena). Even if a video game is not educational in nature, they can provide crucial learning techniques to children just from learning how to play the game. In a study done by J.P. Gee, he thirty-six learning principles that could be found in video et al). Gee also brings up which have a learning objective, with some examples being to prevent world hunger or help improve the lives of people with incurable diseases et al). The inclusion of would help children become more aware of the world around them and encourage them to help change the world. Video games and technology can also be used to help improve education in areas such as math and science. One type of technology that is being used for this purpose is iPads, which have been found to mathematical (Kucirkova). Nicola Pitchford found that of low achieving children showed improved mathematical skills [with compared to a 17% increase in children who received Normal (Kucirkova). These studies prove that video games do have a beneficial influence in education. When used in an education sense, with the intention of learning, any game or piece of technology could help aid education. In order for our children to be well rounded in society and the world as a whole, they need to be up-to-date with the world around them. Video games are becoming a big part of the world, with an estimated $93 billion USD going into the world video game market in 2013 (Castell et al). With video games becoming such a big part in the world now, there are many new career opportunities. If children were taught about video games and program development, they would be able to create their own games and experience first-hand how games are made and take part in problem-solving techniques and programming skills. Computer skills like this are Buckler 3 becoming more valuable in the job market, and getting them ready early would set them up for success after schooling. One issue people would point out about utilizing video games in education would be that educational video games, with the quality of commercial games, requires large A solution to this would be using normal games in an educational sense. Most, if not all, games have some sort of problem solving and team-work scenarios, and taking advantage of these scenarios would teach children valuable life lessons. Another possible counter to including games would be that they will encourage violence in children. However, Marcus article the Morality of Violent Video states that long as they treat other human players with respect, there is no clear harm of (Schulzke). In an educational setting, children would be taught to work together and be respectful, and as Schulzke says, as long as they treat each other respectfully, there is no harm done. If children are taught early on to respect each other whilst working together, they will carry it into the work place. There is plenty that could be done to encourage the inclusion of video games and technology in schools. Many classes already utilize programs in class such as Kahoot! and Type To Learn, however there is more that could be done. In some cases, as simple as contacting the teacher about different computer programs or attending council meetings and vote to include technology in education. Any kind of technological addition to education could have a huge benefit on a child, even if something as small as keeping them interested in what they are doing. In some cases, school is the only chance children will have to interact with technology, so it is the duty to ensure that kids become familiar with common technologies. Using technology in schools also provides an avenue to watch their growth and development. In using a story telling app, Kucirkova was able to find that exploratory Buckler 4 talk was similar with apps which support joint problem-solving, open-ended content production and which have incrementally difficult tasks to (Kucirkova). Utilizing technologies like this allows teachers to directly monitor how their students are doing, allowing the education they receive to be catered to the students themselves. The use of video games and technology in early education would be a huge benefit to the quality of education children receive. In society, video games are a huge portion of most daily lives, and we are almost always interacting with some form of technology. By including these technologies in education, children would be more connected with the world be growing up in. Technology has multiple benefits in education, whether it be to improve their basic reading and math skills or help build problem solving and team work techniques, technology almost always provides something that be possible without it. There are ways around the possible counter arguments, and the benefits outweigh any of the negatives. Technology is the future, and the sooner children become familiar with it, the better off they will be after they finish school. Word Count: 1298 Buckler 5 Works Cited Arena, Dylan. Games as Tillers of Theory Into Practice, vol. 54, no. 2, 2015, pp. doi:10.1080/00405841.2015.1010843. Accessed 12 Apr. 2017. Castell, Suzanne De, et al. Role of Video Game Experience in Spatial Learning and Journal of Gaming & Virtual Worlds, vol. 7, no. 1, Jan. 2015, pp. Accessed 12 Apr. 2017. Kucirkova, Natalia. in Early Education: Separating Assumptions and in Psychology, vol. 5, Aug. 2014. PsycINFO doi:10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00715. Accessed 12 Apr. 2017. Schulzke, Marcus. the Morality of Violent Video Ethics and Information Technology, vol. 12, no. 2, 2010, pp. Applied Science & Technology Source, doi:10.1007/s10676-010-9222-x. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Jorge, et al. Social Gamification Framework for a K-6 Learning in Human Behavior, vol. 29, no. 2, Mar. 2013, pp. 353.ScienceDirect, doi:10.1016/j.chb.2012.06.007. Accessed 12 Apr. 2017.