Colon 1 Perry Colon Professor Lisa DuBois ENC 1102 Section 046 15 April 2017 Make a Difference, Close Guantanamo Bay The detention center at Guantanamo Bay needs to be closed immediately. Guantanamo Bay should be closed because it is too expensive and the money could be used elsewhere, it is inhumane and treats its inmates very poorly, and the facility is morally questionable and harms our national prestige. The detention center at the naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba was opened under the Bush administration in January of 2002 (Nolen). Ever since then, it has been used to house and detain multiple people who have been labeled as a terrorist or suspected terrorist because of the war on terror. Concerning the war on terror, most of the people held in Guantanamo Bay were suspected to be part of the terrorist group known as Al Qaeda. These people were interrogated to get information out of them for us to get an edge in the war on terror. Some of these people who were interrogated by the military were tortured to get information from them. The military referred to the tactic of torturing people as enhanced interrogation techniques. After these inmates were captured and brought to Guantanamo Bay, some were not given a date for a trial or a date for release (GTMO). This means that the inmates would be indefinitely detained and may not be guaranteed that they would be free ever again. Many people argue that Guantanamo Bay helps us as a nation more than it hurts us but it is the exact opposite. People may not care about this issue nor believe that they could do anything to help because of how distant the problem is from our daily lives. Colon 2 To begin, one of the reasons why Guantanamo Bay should be closed is because the detainees at Guantanamo Bay are treated poorly and inhumanely. The biggest and most known instance of inhumane and poor treatment of prisoners comes from the torture allegations that has surrounded the detention center. There have been confirmed reports of torture in Guantanamo Bay, which included reports about the most famous form of torture, waterboarding. But the inhumane and abusive treatment of inmates go deeper than that. The senate investigated the use of torture at Guantanamo Bay and found that in addition to traditional forms of torture such as waterboarding, the CIA did things such as inmates in ice water feeding inmates without any sort of medical and one CIA torturer even played with a detainee (Feinstein). The second reason the detention center at Guantanamo Bay should be closed is because it is morally questionable and it harms are national prestige. When talking about Guantanamo Bay, President Obama remarked that; pride ourselves on being a free and just society. This reflect (Molloy). He continued by saying; this facility open is contrary to our (Molloy). Both statements are true and show that Guantanamo Bay hurts our national prestige because it shows that America is being hypocritical and going against our own core beliefs. The morally questionable part of the Guantanamo Bay comes from the fact that Guantanamo Bay also detains people and some have been wrongfully detained under mistaken identity. One example of this is the case of Omar Deghayes, who was mistaken to be a Chechen rebel and consequentially, detained at Guantanamo Bay for five years (Staff). So, because of one case of mistaken identity, a man just lost 5 years of his life and our government did nothing to rectify the situation. There is something morally wrong about that and it needs to be addressed. If the first two reasons did not make you care about this issue, the third reason affects all of us, and possibly on a personal level. Colon 3 Although many of the side effects of Guantanamo Bay do not really affect the daily lives of people, there is one key side effect that does affect us, and that is the monetary side effect. The detention center at Guantanamo Bay is very expensive to maintain, operate, and keep open in general. In fact, we do not even own the land that the detention center is built on, we are leasing it from Cuba. In addition to that, according to the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), we as the American people spent $454 million in 2013 on maintaining and keeping Guantanamo Bay open for 41 detainees, which is roughly $11million dollars per detainee in Guantanamo Bay (Wasted Opportunities). That is too much money to be spending on something that is so unnecessary. If we could close Guantanamo Bay and, based on the earlier statistic, free up that $454 million, we could spend it on things that we need or is necessary. Just as a couple of examples, we could spend the money on medical research to cure diseases such as cancer or we could use the money to fund educational or scholarship programs for those that need it. One statistic from the ACLU says that we could fund 80 percent of prosthetics research for veterans for an entire year (Wasted Opportunities). Even if we were to close Guantanamo Bay incrementally, the ACLU gave statistics about how much money would be saved. For example, if we were to release or transfer ten detainees, the amount of money would be enough to fully fund the employment program, or, if we were to release or transfer only 2 detainees, it would have been enough money to make sure that the health care of military staff and their families would not have increased in 2013 (Wasted Opportunities). Thus, we could use the money from closing Guantanamo Bay to help those who both need and deserve it. If we unite, stand together, and express our concern, we can make a difference, close Guantanamo Bay, and make sure that the injustices that occurred at Guantanamo Bay are never committed again. Colon 4 Now that you have heard the argument to close Guantanamo Bay, you may be asking the question: How do I get involved and make a difference in this issue? To be blunt, you cannot make a difference just by yourself, this is a politically driven issue and the best way to deal with Guantanamo Bay is to deal with it politically and to work as a cohesive unit. The easiest way to get involved and make a difference is to donate to and support organizations like the American Civil Liberties Union. However, if you want to actively get involved and try to make a difference, let senators Marco Rubio and Bill Nelson or any of our Florida representatives know that Guantanamo Bay is an important issue that must be dealt with. You can do this by showing up and participating in meeting our senators or representatives meet with their constituents. If you want to take this a step further, you can participate in protests and show our politicians that more people care about this than they think. Colon 5 Works Cited Feinstein, Dianne. Report of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Committee Study of the Central Intelligence Detention and Interrogation Program, Together with Foreword by Chairman Feinstein and Additional and Minority Views. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 2014. Print. GTMO By the  Human Rights First (n.d.): n. pag. Mar. 2017. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Molloy, Parker. 5 Reasons to Close Guantanamo Bay and a 4-step Plan to Get Upworthy. Upworthy, 23 Feb. 2016. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Nolen, Jeannette L. Guantanamo Bay Detention  Britannica. Britannica, Inc., 22 May 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Staff, NPR. The Case For Closing - And Keeping Open -  NPR. NPR, 06 Mar. 2016. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Wasted Opportunities: The Cost of Detention Operations at  American Civil Liberties Union. ACLU, 2 Feb. 2017. Web. 11 Apr. 2017.