1 Lymaris ENC 1102 007 Prof. Mariama M. Changamire March 12, 2017 Learning Disabilities Since 1963, The Learning Disabilities Association of America has been an advocate for people with learning disabilities. It also supports parents, teachers and other professionals with research on different types of disabilities, and provides a network full of resources that help learning disabilities be universally understood and effectively addressed. The LDA also visualizes a world where the of learning disabilities are reduced and all disabled individuals are empowered to thrive and participate fully in (LDA). To educate others on how to help reduce the incidences of learning disabilities and raise awareness, the LDA partnered with the John Merck Fund in the Healthy Children Project to grassroots prevention activities aimed at reducing human exposure to toxic chemicals in the environment. Such exposures are linked to increased incidence of learning disabilities and (LDA). The LDA is also constantly recruiting people to join their organization, not only to be part of projects like the Healthy Children Project (HCP), but also to support, educate and raise awareness to set afloat mission. The Learning Disabilities Association of goal for people with learning disabilities to participate fully in society is reflected in these two images that represent inclusion, diversity and opportunity. The LDA is dedicated to providing funds for research and education and the promotion of public awareness of both children and adults with learning disabilities. The purpose of this organization is to support for charitable, scientific, literary or educational purposes, and 2 for the accurate identification, ongoing evaluation and complete education of, and services for, children and adults with learning (LDA). This organization does all it can to expand their reach when it comes to supporting people with learning disabilities. They have partnered up with a few other organizations and made a couple of projects that set these goals forward to better the education and understanding of learning disabilities. One of the projects that they have set in motion is the Healthy Children Project. The Healthy Children Project goals are to raise awareness of environmental factors, particularly toxic chemicals, that can harm brain development, contributing to learning disabilities and behavior disorders, promote policies and practices to prevent toxic chemical exposures, especially among pregnant women and children, and build a nationwide network of LDA members working to protect health and reduce toxic exposures that may lead to learning disabilities in current and future generations. (LDA). The Healthy Children Project also provides research for its cause: According to a 2011 report issued by the U.S Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, nearly 1 in 6 American children were diagnosed with a learning or developmental disability in 2008. The National Academy of Sciences estimates that environmental factors, including toxic chemicals, cause or contribute to at least a quarter of learning and developmental disabilities in American children. In recent decades, scientists have learned that the developing human brain is much more susceptible to toxic substances than the adult brain, and that certain chemicals can have a profound effect on the developing brain at levels that were once thought to be safe. (HCP) Through their visual (Image 1), the LDA mostly tries to appeal to the audience through the representation of inclusion and diversity. The LDA uses the colors of the images, the drawing of 3 the children and the font to represent these themes. The colors that stand out the most in this image are yellow, green, and blue. Yellow is a color known to represent youthfulness, optimism, and clarity, which is also seen in the children drawn in the image. Green is used to portray peace and growth, representing the growth and development of this project, and blue is used to portray trust and strength, which also serves to establish credibility between the organization and the audience. The children drawn in the image also help bring out the youthfulness that the color yellow portrays. In the kids drawn, we see a diversity in ethnicity. This can be interpreted as the attempt to include any child, regardless of their race, into their organization and their project. Also, the drawing of the kids, the font, and the background not being colored in completely with yellow and green, makes it seem as if this image was created by children themselves, assumingly with disabilities. This implies that,if they can take part in creating this image that represents the LDA, they can also take part in society just like everyone else. The purpose of the representation of these colors and the idea to make the image childlike and innocent, is to put attention to the children that, according to this project, are being affected by environmental factors. The Learning Disabilities Association of America believes that person with learning disabilities can succeed in school, at work, in relationships, and within the community when provided the right supports and the right (LDA). membership is comprised of both parents and professionals in the field who work side by side to advocate for individuals with learning disabilities. This organization is constantly on the lookout for new members to create opportunities for people with or without learning disabilities alike, to expand their research and their educational reach. To persuade the audience to become a member, the LDA uses a visual (Image 2) to portray their credibility as an organization, while simultaneously 4 representing opportunities for anyone. The credibility can be seen in the teacher with the student, symbolizing that the organization is capable of providing children, and adults alike, with proper education about learning disabilities. A professional woman smiling at us can also be seen, which helps represent the professionalism of the organization as a whole. The man holding his glasses is a clear indicator of intelligence, which makes the audience trust the LDA with their knowledge on learning disabilities. This image also tries to appeal to the audience by showing us a loving family, symbolizing that a family with a disabled member can be as happy as any other family. Though not much, this image also utilizes color to reach its audience. The words are in the color blue that, as started before, portrays trust and strength. Also, the words belong with are colored in green which, also discussed above, represents peace and growth, and also lets the audience know of the opportunities available for them if they become part of the LDA. All these things help the audience believe that the LDA is a strong, trustworthy and dependable association to be a part of. Even though these two images are both from the Learning Disabilities Association of America, they are different from one another, yet similar at the same time. They differ in their intended purpose upon creation. Image 1 is promoting the Healthy Children Project, whose goal is to raise awareness about environmental factors that can harm brain development. With the bright colors and the childish style, easy for people to feel sympathy towards the cause, and hopefully gain interest, do research and learn about its goals The purpose of Image 2 however, is to persuade the audience to join the organization. In doing so, it is logical they would focus on demonstrating how credible and trustworthy they are as an association. That way, the audience will believe that the LDA is an organization they can rely on to achieve their mission to help and support individuals with and without learning disabilities. Even though they were made 5 with different purposes, these two images still represent the goal of inclusion, diversity and opportunity in society. The Learning Disabilities Association of America appeals to the audience through a representation of their mission with the use of these two visual rhetorics. The strategic use of different colors, font and the children drawn in Image 1, help the audience sympathise with the cause by representing innocence, inclusion and diversity, And in Image 2, the strategic placement of the images that create trust and reliability both help represent the organization as a whole, portrays their goals to help learning disabilities be universally understood and effectively addressed, and provides opportunities for anyone who wishes to join the LDA. Word Count: 1,373 6 Works Cited Ciotti, Gregory. Psychology of Color in Marketing and Help Scout. Web. Feb 20, 2017. https://www.helpscout.net/blog/psychology-of-color/ Children Healthy Children Project. 2011, Web. Feb 22, 2017 http://www.healthychildrenproject.org/ Image of the Children Learning Disabilities Association of America. Web. Feb 23, 2017. https://ldaamerica.org/healthy-childrens-project/ Image that says Learning Disabilities Association of America. Web. Feb 20, 2017. https://ldaamerica.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/11/join-lda-slider.jpg Disabilities Foundation of LDA. Web, Feb 16, 2017 https://ldaamerica.org/about-us/ld-foundation/ 7 Image 1: https://ldaamerica.org/healthy-childrens-project/ Image 2: https://ldaamerica.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/11/join-lda-slider.jpg