Pircher 1 Lauren Pircher ENC 1102 Maria Theodosiou Apr. 30, 2017 Project 3 - The Issue on Genetically Modified Organisms Since 1980 genetically modified organism, also widely known as GMOs, have begun to change the way food is created. These changes were made to produce foods that lasted longer, tasted better, and repelled insects, allowing farmers the convenience of not having to spray crops and increasing revenue for major food corporations. Although GMOs may seem to improve our food industry, they are found to be detrimental to our health and the environment and thus many anti-gmo organizations have been taking a stance in this issue and pushed for strict labeling laws on all genetically modified foods. In order to do something about this issue it is essential to educate and bring awareness about the negative effects of GMOs on our health and the environment. To help in this dilemma, you can join educational and anti-gmo organizations as well as donate to organizations that support labeling laws and urge for non-GMO foods. Genetically modified organisms have been changing the way Americans eat and grow food and raising concerns about the safety of these foods has caused the public to fear what they are consuming. According to the World Health Organization, are defined as an organism in which the genetic material (DNA) has been altered in a way that does not occur Pircher 2 (WHO 1). This is one reason why society is skeptical about the safety of consuming genetically modified organisms and the risks it may bring regarding the environment. GMOs were first created in order to develop crops that have pest resistant traits and are also resistant to disease or drought. Scientists also created GMOS to improve the nutritional content and shelf life of produce (WHO 1). Although this may seem beneficial to the society and food industry, it is found that GMOs possess harmful chemicals that are negatively affecting our health and the environment around us. Advocates of GM crops claim that they can feed the world through production of higher crop yield, but studies have proven otherwise. According to a report by the International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge, Science and Technology for Development, of technology lags behind its development, information is anecdotal and contradictory, and uncertainty about possible benefits and damage is 1). Despite the beliefs that GMOs are helping to feed the hungry and increase produce yields,the report concluded that,in fact,GMOs are not significantly increasing yields and the damage these crops bring is inevitable. The report also found that genetically modified organisms are not improving nutritional values and are not of benefit to the society or environment (Ishii-Eiteman 1). With this information in mind, my question to you is why? Why are we harming the environment in order to accommodate farmers and created foods that significantly making a positive impact in the world. The next time you go shopping, opt for the organic choices in order to stop the detrimental impact of GMOs. Since GMOs are genetically altered in order to create the breed of produce, it is concerning how these foods are affecting us and our well-being. Unfortunately, there have been very few studies regarding the effects of genetically modified organisms on the human body, but Pircher 3 studies conducted with animals have shown devastating results. According to the American Academy of Environmental Medicine, studies indicate serious health risks associated with GM food consumption including infertility, immune dysregulation, accelerated aging, dysregulation of genes associated with cholesterol synthesis, insulin regulation, changes in liver, kidney, spleen, and gastrointestinal (Dean 1). Although these studies clearly show animals obtaining serious illnesses after being fed genetically modified foods, many safety agencies are disregarding these cold, hard facts. For example, the safety assessment of GM foods is based on This means that if genetically modified foods are found to be equivalent in composition and nutrition to conventional foods, it is inquired or regarded as being safe for consumption (Dean 1). You are putting your health at risk by consuming foods that contain GMOs. Imagine receiving news that you are infertile due to foods you have consumed, this is a controllable factor and that is why it is essential to stop the production of GM foods and crops. To think that little speculation for safety is being put into creating genetically modified foods is a concern the public should be aware of. Not only are genetically modified organisms harmful to our health, but they are also detrimental to the environment and ecosystems. Through various studies it was found that the herbicides used within GMO crops are harming the wildlife around it. According to an article by IRT, Institute for Responsible Technology, crops are eliminating habitat for monarch butterflies, whose populations are down 50 percent in the (Responsible Technology 1). This fact shows the havok GMOs and their crops reek on the environment and the potential species we will lose from it. Another report states, instance it is estimated that 80 percent of endangered species could suffer losses due to competition with or Pircher 4 predation by invasive (Aslaksen 491). Again, this shows how GM crops are negatively impacting the environment and slowly wiping out endangered species. Imagine a world without vital species to the food chain. Without these organisms, you will feel the effect of the extinction. This can be avoided by helping to stop GMOs and GM crops. Since the creation of genetically modified organisms, the food industry has changed tremendously. As with any issue there are benefits, but regarding the issue with GMOs, the risks outweigh the benefits and they are causing a negative impact on our health and the world around us. It is our jobs to save the environment and fight against GMOs. Do your part today, to save tomorrow! It is clear to see that genetically modified organisms are harmful and unsafe regarding various aspects in our society. The risks and hazards these crops and foods possess, is detrimental to the well-being of humans as well as the environment and that is why it is essential the public takes a stand and acts against gmos and their supporting organizations. In order to address this issue and raise awareness among the public, educational organizations and campaigns have affiliated across the country. These educational workshops address concerning issues about the effects of gmos and the companies that make them. They also provide information about alternative food sources and strategies to detect genetically modified foods that are not clearly labeled. To help in this matter you can join organizations that are strictly against GMOs such as the Non-GMO Project organization. The Non-GMO Project is an organization that is dedicated to providing consumers with products free of GMOs as well as educating the public on GMOs (WHO 1). Donating to these organizations will help with their effort in requiring mandatory labeling laws for all products that contain GMOs as well as help them to educate more people on the issue about GMOs. You can also make an impact in the fight Pircher 5 against GMOs by choosing organic choices and sharing your knowledge about GMOs with friends and family to raise awareness about the issue. It is our responsibility as humans to take care of ourselves, our children, and the environment for a promising future. Make a difference today by donating to and/or joining anti-gmo organizations and see a difference tomorrow. Genetically modified organisms are not only unsafe for consumption, but are also negatively impacting our environment, which is why it is essential for society to get involved and take action. As a consumer, we have power in this issue as we can choose to not support and buy products that were genetically modified. Every person that chooses non-GMO products is helping to close off profits for GMO companies,thusly, making a difference to help. According to blah blah, quote about company that took action because of public. We, as consumers, have the power to take action and make a difference in the issue about gmos. Pircher 6 Works Cited Aslaksen, Iulie, and Anne Ingeborg Myhr. The Worth of a : Precautionary Perspectives on the Environmental Risks of  Science Direct . Elsevier, 15 Jan. 2006. Dean, Amy, D.O., and Jennifer Armstrong, M.D. Genetically Modified  American Academy of Environmental Science . N.p., 8 May 2009. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Food Safety: Frequently asked questions on genetically modified  World Health Organization . N.p., May 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Ishii-Eiteman, Marcia, PhD. Feeding the World, Greening the  I nternational Assessment of Knowledge, Science and Technology for Development . Pesticide Action Network Web. Tsatsakis, Aristidis M., Muhammad Amajad Nawaz, and Demetrios Kouretas. Environmental Impact of Genetically Modified Plants: A  Elsevier . Elsevier, n.d. Web. 10 Reasons to Avoid  Institute for Responsible Technology . N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.