Student 1 Student Prof. KImber Wiggs 9 April 2017 ENC 1101 Project 3 Homelessness Homelessness is really a major issue for many countries across the world and it does not look good for the number of homeless people. In addition, many homeless families have left their home countries and become refugees across the world and affected many countries in Europe, Asia, and Africa. Homelessness has influenced many people of their way of living. It becomes harder while the prices of living are becoming higher every year. Nonetheless, homelessness problem is something impossible to be solved, an issue that will stay forever on this earth. For many different people, they still argue that homelessness problem happens because what those people chose this way of living. No human wants to live on the streets and be homeless so how they reached to this level? For many people, they have any other options to fix their lives. There are many homeless families that they raise their kids on the streets. Those children choose to live without a home, what this World give them the hand to help them. We need to understand that not every homeless has put himself there in the streets because of what he did before, it could be his only home that he lived all his life. The only thing that we can do is trying to decrease the rates of homeless people especially the families. If we stand doing nothing, it will not just affect their live today, it will affect us tomorrow. many who see the homelessness is not an issue, increasing the number of Student 2 homelessness will affect any country economy, and if a country affected economically it will affect not only homeless but also people who see homelessness as an issue. We need to understand what homelessness means, there are types of homeless we can define from. The homeless in the United States may not match the same definition of homeless in Africa or Asia. Homelessness is when an individual have home or cell to live on and short of food. In the United States in 2011 there was almost to 46 million people who were considered as homeless, 15% of the county population. Many of women homeless have faced sexual or physical abuse that led them to be living in the streets and destroy their life. Homelessness has become a major issue in the United States and while the government really give a solution to decrease the number of homeless people, going to be more difficult to solve year by year, it does not look a bright future for the homeless in the US. What we need to do to fight homelessness is to know what are the causes for these people to lose everything they have instead of just blaming them. One of the major issues of homelessness is gambling. The University of Cambridge in the United Kingdom reveals how gambling really affected badly across the nation. In these days, you not only gamble in the casino in the real life, there are now gambling websites that you can put real money and play. has exploded in popularity over the past 20 years, partly due to changes in legislation but also because of new said (Sharman). commission said the Atlantic City Rescue Mission reported that 22 percent of its clients are homeless due to a gambling problem. For many people, they see that gambling is not the major reason for homelessness issue and those people who become homeless fault. Having said that, our job to help these people to leave gambling habit and find a new habit that they be busy with. There are large numbers of Student 3 homeless people in the US that become homeless because of gambling. The solution and it could be hard is step by step reduce the number of casinos to make sure that it will be hard to 1999 National Gambling Impact Study Commission, the definitive study on gambling in America, found that with gambling problems seem to constitute a higher percentage of the homeless One of the thoughts that we can help homeless people is to give them a good health care to prevent them from dangerous diseases from living in the streets. Many argue that it will cost the country lots and lots of money to help poor people. Homelessness issue be solved if they those people kept living sick. What I suggest that we can help a certain number of homeless people and give them the chance to stand and help them mentally, socially, and physically. Health is the most important thing for any human being and governments need to give them a free basic healthcare so they can live again healthy and without any excuses. Homeless likewise encounter poor access to social insurance, prompting postponed clinical introduction, expanded dependence on crisis offices, and higher rates of hospitalization, regularly for preventable conditions. However, the degree to which destitute grown-ups can get human services over the range of wellbeing needs simply portrayed is to a great extent obscure. Existing information is construct principally with respect to investigations of single urban communities or single sorts of neglected need, not very many national reviews have enough caught this hard-to-achieve Another issue that homeless people face is that they afford to live on room. a big problem since many of homeless hardly find money to eat and almost impossible to pay the rent every significant number of the best lodging based arrangements intended to Student 4 address the vagrancy emergency, specifically, perpetual steady lodging for people living with handicaps and other exceptional needs were spearheaded in New York City and have been duplicated all through the Eventually, the world should stop being careless about homelessness issue. If we offer them help to give them better way of living, it will be ending not just a problem for them, but it will reach to us. Numbers of homeless are increasing every day and we need to give those people another chance so they can be active in their society. If the organizations and governments raise funding money to help homeless it will result to a bad economy that not only affect those poor people but all society. Student 5 WORK CITED Evans, Joshua, Damian Collins, and Jalene Anderson. Bedspace and the Case for Housing First in Science & Medicine (2016): Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Greenberg, Greg A., and Robert A. Rosenheck. Incarceration, Homelessness, and Mental Health: A National Psychiatric 59.2 (2008): Web. He, Yinghua, Brendan and Robert A. Rosenheck. Shared Housing a Way to Reduce Homelessness? The Effect of Household Arrangements on Formerly Homeless of Housing 19.1 (2010): Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Sharman, Stephen. A new study reveals the scale of problem gambling among the homeless population. of 2 Apr. 2014. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Tipple, Graham, and Suzanne Speak. of Homelessness in Developing 29.2 (2005): Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Watson, J., J. Crawley, and D. Kane. Exclusion, Health and Hidden 139. (2016): Web. 22 Jan. 2017.