Carandang 1 Elyssa Carandang Professor DeCarion ENC 1102.086 3 May 2017 Drunk Driving Through time, different laws have been passed in an attempt to decrease drunk driving across the nation. Even though statistics show that the amount of accidents have decreased, these intoxicated incidents keep on occurring. Ever since social media has become a popular communication platform, spreading awareness about drunk driving has never been easier. In this day and age, generations Y and Z are the youngest of generations to be educated on drinking and driving. Most people know that operating a vehicle while intoxicated is a serious misdemeanor and will not disagree otherwise. However, people do not realize how serious the repercussions drunk driving has. Whenever a drunk driving incident occurs, society acknowledges the incident for a minute or two and go on about their day like the incident never occurred. Imagine if the tables turned and knowing the person or people involved in that particular car accident. That person involved in this incident could be critically injured all because of an irresponsible choice or through clouded judgment. Through educating society about the severe consequences of drunk driving, there could be a possibility to putting drunk driving to an end and ensuring the safety of the lives of innocent bystanders. Although all fifty states in America consider drunk driving as a felony or a misdemeanor, each state has a different approach in dealing with these intoxicated individuals. According to Attorney Rich Stim, there are minor consequences for individuals who committed a first-offense DUI in Florida. Attorney Stim stated that possible consequences of a first-offense DUI Carandang 2 (driving under the influence) in Florida include fines, license suspension, vehicle impoundment, having to install an ignition interlock device (IID), and jail Judging from these consequences, the state of Florida takes the severity of DUIs seriously. In the United States of America, statistics is an important factor in everyday life in order to calculate the credibility of certain events. One U.S. federal agency that would agree with this statement is the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Not only have they looked into all the details of motor vehicle safety, but they have also focused on facts about impaired driving. According to the CDC, day, 28 people in the United States die in motor vehicle crashes that involve an alcohol-impaired driver. This amounts to one death every 53 minutes. The annual cost of alcohol-related crashes totals more than $44 Even with all these shocking statistics, there seems to be nothing to permanently stop all these careless DUIs or DWIs. Many drunk driving awareness advocates have done everything in their power to get laws passed in order to prevent car accidents due to impaired driving. Even after certain laws were passed, laws regarding the 0.08% BAC laws were still strongly enforced nationwide (CDC). As mentioned in the previous paragraph, there are different laws in different states in regards to drunk driving. Some states might share the same common laws while others might enforce the safety towards impaired driving even more. One law that is available in all states excepts for Kansas, Delaware, Maryland, Nebraska, Nevada, South Dakota, and Virginia is the Dram Shop Law. According in the United States, this term is referred to bars where alcohol beverages are sold. Even though the majority of the U.S. enforces the Dram Shop Law, some states do not enforce the rule as much. According to the National Conference of State Legislatures, in Louisiana exempt licensed establishments from liability except in the cases where they serve a person under the legal drinking age. Nevada and South Dakota exempt licensed establishments Carandang 3 from States like Nevada and South Dakota concluded that it is not the workers of the establishment who committed the DUI and rather, the individual who bought and consumed the alcoholic individual. Another law that enforces individuals who committed DUIs is the Mandatory Alcohol Assessment/Treatment rule. This rule requires all individuals who are convicted of a DUI to complete an assessment that determines whether or not that individual has alcohol abuse issues and make those who are convicted of a DUI to take part in a treatment program (MADD). Unfortunately, even after all the enforced laws to ensure the safety of the general public, many innocent lives had to pay the ultimate price for the wrongdoings of those who were convicted of a DUI. No matter what social class status a person was classified as, drunk driving accidents could happen to anyone at any time. One individual who was known by many and lost their life to a drunk driving accident was Princess Diana of Wales. Not only did this well-known individual lose her life, but the life of her boyfriend and her driver were also effected as well. According to the autopsy report, the driver was intoxicated. According to Bloom Legal, anti-depressants and anti-psychotics in the body of the driver which they could have amplified the After all that impact, the only person to come out alive was the bodyguard. There are some incidents in which less than five people lost their life in a drunk driving accident. However, there are unfortunate incidents in which twenty- seven people were killed all because of one careless decision. On May 14, 1988, an intoxicated man was driving a pickup truck on the wrong side of the highway struck a school bus with sixty- seven passengers aboard. This incident is known for being one of the most horrific drunk driving incidents in the united states. At the time, all news platforms covered this tragic event. William E. Schmidt, reporter of the New York Times, stated that said the bus burst into flame Carandang 4 almost immediately after the collision, and the fire spread quickly as young people crowded into the back of the bus trying to The cause of death for those 27 passengers was smoke inhalation (Schmidt). Drunk driving is a serious topic that should not be taken lightly. Unfortunately, there are countless records of drunk driving incidents nationwide. Some people will take action for a brief moment but will eventually stop their efforts due to the fact that there is not a lot of support from the general public. People will not advocate something unless it personally affects them. Education systems all across the U.S. have implemented informational presentations in regards to the effects drunk driving entails. There are also profit and non-profit organizations that spread drunk driving awareness and help support those who were effected by these intoxicated accidents. One organization that is known for influencing people to make a call to action is Mothers Against Drunk Driving. This non-profit organization is known for having a 24-hour victim help line and having an abundance of information on a different type of impaired driving (i.e. drugged driving). On their official website, MADD has the option for any user to sign a pledge in supporting the campaign to eliminating drunk driving. This website also has a tab which has the option to staying informed by MADD and also having the option to donating a one-time or monthly donation to those who are effected by drunk driving accidents. Organizations like MADD not only can help spread awareness of drunk driving, but can hopefully one day permanently cease all types of impaired driving. [Word count: Carandang 5 Works Cited Bloom Legal. 9 Celebrity Deaths That Were Linked to Drunk  Bloom Legal. N.p., 03 Jan. 2015. Web. 03 May 2017. <http://www.bloomlegal.com/blog/2014/07/9-celebrity- deaths-linked-drunk-driving/>. Dram Shop Civil Liability and Criminal Penalty State  National Conference of State Legislatures. N.p., 14 June 2013. Web. 3 May 2017. <http://www.ncsl.org/research/financial-services-and-commerce/dram-shop-liability- state-statutes.aspx>. Impaired Driving: Get the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 26 Jan. 2017. Web. 03 May 2017. MADD.  Mothers Against Drunk Driving. Mothers Against Drunk Driving, n.d. Web. 03 May 2017. <http://www.madd.org/laws/>. Schmidt, William E. Fiery Crash Kills 27 in Kentucky As Truck and Bus  The New York Times. The New York Times, 15 May 1988. Web. 03 May 2017. <http://www.nytimes.com/1988/05/16/us/fiery-crash-kills-27-in-kentucky-as-truck-and- youths-bus-collide.html>. Stim, Rich. DUI in  DrivingLaws. N.p., 27 Apr. 2016. Web. 03 May 2017. <http://dui.drivinglaws.org/resources/first-offense-dui-florida.htm>.