Goodson 1 Nicki Goodson Mariama Changamire ENC 1102 23 February 2017 Planned Parenthood Planned Parenthood is an organization that works towards equality and protection for all women everywhere. Growing as an organization for nearly one hundred years, Planned Parenthood has made a mark throughout the United States. With this impact and being declared a reliable organization, Planned Parenthood is able to use the media as a tool in order to project its ideas towards the community. Planned Parenthood uses its prominence in order to create different emotional arises; through the strong images that they place on their website and pamphlets which represent them. Planned Parenthood uses advertisements and images everywhere to target their audience in order to gain support in the community and encourage the need for sexual protection now. When approaching the website for Planned Parenthood, the emotional draw is immediately presented to its audience. Photos are placed on every category throughout the site. The place in which the first photo I chose is under the tab take action. Women gathered around, seeming to be yelling or arguing for what they stand for, all in pink Planned Parenthood shirts. This image is nearly overwhelming with the message that it is implementing. In addition to this photo, the texts around it are all in bold, the colors pink and black. Both the statements that are presented, along with the features and diversity amongst the crowd provide insight to the reader. According to Schacter et. al, facial feedback hypothesis suggests that emotional Goodson 2 expressions can cause the emotional experiences they (Schacter, et. al, 2014). Above the category of which the first photo is attached is a statement that includes we will fight like hell to stop these attacks-and back (Planned Parenthood, 2017). This introduction leads directly to what this photo is attempting to establish. This statement sets up the photo, giving emotions of both fear and strength a presence in the audience. The photo also presents the President of Planned Parenthood in the middle, creating a sense of loyalty and respect. Through the use of this strong appearance seen in the text, in addition to the photos of women throughout the site Planned Parenthood declares their message and presents their stance in the fight against sexual assault, adding a presence of emotion to the audience and their stance in this fight. Planned Parenthood started as an organization with merely ten women. However, as seen in photo number one, there is an obvious growth and an addition to the reliability of this organization. The photo is seen underlying the setting in Washington D.C, the capital which adds another level of both urgency and authenticity. Through this setting, Planned Parenthood is able to generate a sense of respect and trustworthiness through which they establish credibility in their organization. The organization sets up other photos in a similar manner; In photo two there is credibility through diversity. Photo two is similar, yet different. It allows the audience to grasp a hold of the message of the organization, no matter their race, gender, age or identity. This photo does this through the creation and establishment of diversity. Diversity is something that Planned Parenthood prides itself on. As stated in their mission statement, believe that respect and value for diversity in all aspects of our organization are essential to our well-being. We believe that reproductive self-determination must be voluntary and preserve the right to privacy. We further believe that such self-determination Goodson 3 will contribute to an enhancement of the quality of life and strong family Planned Parenthood establishes credibility throughout their site and this can especially be seen throughout photos on the website. Through this motive, planned parenthood is able to create a site that allows people to put their trust in the organization. Although Planned Parenthood has been around and developing for nearly one hundred years, the timing of the pictures was impeccable. Due to the recent change in government based on the newest election, there are talks on the ideas of planned parenthood being defunded. The organization uses tactics that aim to reach out to people and help them support both the company and what its message is. Throughout the website and hovering over the photos, there are several signs stating things such as or the This idea is also carried over in and throughout the photos that are based on the website. The first photo includes women with signs that state things such as ends or the This use of timeliness is also seen in the setting of the first photo. The first photo takes place at Washington D.C. This image is easily accessible, as it is in one of the important tabs that are in the breakdown. Washington D.C is both the capital and where the President resides, making the area a very political one. This setting draws the audience in, developing a sense of urgency. While this election was very wide-arrayed, Planned Parenthood uses this for the better, using this experience to gain support and work together with one another to bring in an audience. (Kellogg, 2017)This idea of timeliness is also implemented in the second photo. Throughout the second photo there is an array of women, many being adolescents or young adults, however, there is a very young child that can be seen in the very center whom is holding a sign stating heart planned While the message may be seen as vague, it places a toll on the message of planned parenthood; that planned parenthood is for everyone no matter its diversity. Goodson 4 Through the use of images Planned Parenthood is able to generate an array of different feelings and emotions. Planned Parenthood adapts to the setting and times of today and uses it to its advantage to drag the audience in and feel as though they are in the photo itself. In both photo one and photo two the organization was able to authenticate its website, create a variety of emotions, and establish a sense of timeliness, all which add to the viability of the organization and the website that it has produced. Planned Parenthood uses its prominence in order to create different emotional arises; through the images that it presents, Planned Parenthood is able to help stop sexual assault and to join the fight in creating a safer environment for women, men, and children everywhere. Goodson 5 Works Cited Parenthood, Planned. Official  Planned Parenthood. N.p., 16 Feb. 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Schacter, Daniel L., Daniel Todd Gilbert, and Daniel M. Wegner. Psychology. New York, NY: Worth Publ., 2014. Print. Based on the research of Marc Meredith and Yuval Salant. First Among  Kellogg Insight. N.p., 01 Oct. 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Temkin, Jennifer. Alternative  Rape and the Legal Process. : Oxford University Press, 2002-12-05. Oxford Scholarship Online. 2010-01-01. Date Accessed 14 Feb. 2017