Reges 1 Caroline Reges Ms. Theodosiou ENC 1102 29 April 2017 Pollution Predicament Over the years, humans have relied more and more on the environment for natural resources in order to survive. These resources have been processed, used, and returned to the environment in a different form than they came in. The earth can not take these changed resources back as easily, creating pollution. It is possible that 30 to 50 percent of all species will be extinct by the end of the century, and we cannot let this happen (Thomas et al, 2003). One of the leading causes of this is pollution. Pollution can occur in the water, air, and on land, and affects every living thing on earth. This needs to be stopped, or else there will not be an earth left to care for us all. Humans have had a large negative impact on animals and the environment because of pollution, and this needs to be stopped. You can fix this by making simple changes to your everyday life, and trying the vegetarian diet once a week. The ocean has felt some of the biggest effects of pollution from human garbage. It was found that fourteen billion pounds of garbage, mostly plastic, is dumped into the ocean every year (Orme, 2008). Some may go directly from people into the ocean, if someone is at the beach or by a river, but a majority of it gets washed into the ocean when someone throws trash on the ground, and the rain carries it into a river. Over years of this happening, the Pacific Garbage has formed. It is a mass of garbage that came from land and ended up in the ocean. It all collected in a gyre-like shape in the ocean north of Hawaii (The Great, 2014). All of Reges 2 this garbage has had extreme consequences to the marine life of the ocean. Many fish mistake the plastic bottles and bags as food, attempt to eat them and choke to death. This mass amount of garbage blocks sunlight, preventing phytoplankton from living, and messing up the rest of the food chain in that area (The Great, 2014). If the fish start dying out because of all the garbage, fishermen will lose their jobs. There are many countries that rely on fish as their main source of protein, and without fish to eat they will go hungry. Think of a world where you can not go to the beaches anymore because they are just so full of trash that they are unsafe. This has already happened to many beaches around the world, and will continue if humans keep polluting our waters. Think twice before throwing trash on the ground, because of all the people and animals it will harm down the road. Humans play a large impact on runoff, which is a problem impacting the aquatic health and wellbeing. Runoff comes from pesticides, pet waste, fuel, and other sources that are harmful to the bay. When it rains, all of these things get in the water, and go downhill until they end up in the river, which leads into the bay, then into the oceans. Because of more paved roads and deforestation, it has become easier for the pollutants to get into the river because nothing is stopping them. In particular, fertilizers put into the rivers and lakes cause there to be an excess of nutrients, which causes more and more algae to bloom, that cause that have low oxygen and no life can survive (Stormwater). The Chesapeake bay and the rivers leading into it, that were once popular swimming areas, are now empty because even putting head underwater can put their health at risk. It is not fair to the future generations to not allow them the same childhood we all had, where we were actually able to go fishing or swimming in a lake Reges 3 if we wanted. Allowing the rivers to get polluted it depriving the younger generations of a fulfilling childhood. As the population grows, more and more fossil fuels need to be consumed, which end up harming our health. The amount of fossil fuels being burned worldwide continues to increase as people begin to rely more and more on advanced technology. This ends up leading to major air pollution. People should be worried about air pollution for their own safety. It can cause breathing problems and increase the risk of having a heart attack (Health). We can either stop polluting the air or risk our lives and wellbeing. While air pollution affects people on the inside, it affects them on the outside as well. In a study of urban and rural women aged 30 to 45, pollution from city life 30 to air pollution made them look 10% older than they actually were (Vierkotter, 2012). In a society that focuses so much on looking youthful and healthy, looking 10% older could have a large effect on your social life and how others perceive you. Lowering the amount of air pollution is the only way to decrease this percentage, and even one person taking action helps. Pesticides have been used for many years by farmers to prevent insects and weeds from harming their crops, but have ended up doing damage to human health instead. These pesticides damage the soil, and can get into the rainwater, which goes into the rivers and damages the marine animals and the animals that drink the water. The pesticides that are not taken away by the rain or put on the plant can end up being taken in by the plants roots, and into the fruit and vegetables that we eat without anyone knowing what it is or how much of it is in the produce. One herbicide, atrazine, has been found in 94% of the water supply, and can lead to birth defects, infertility, and cancer (Pesticides). The amount of damage pesticides are doing to humans and the Reges 4 environment is tremendous, yet little is being done to stop them. In a review done in 2002, it was found that Florida uses 25 pounds per acre of pesticides, more than twice as much than any other state (Total, 2002). All Florida residents should be educated about the dangers of these pesticides, so they understand what is really going on, and can be willing to take action. It is own choice to take action against pesticides to save not just their own health, but the entire There are small steps you can take every day to help improve the earth, and they are so simple there is no excuse not to. Recycling paper or plastic to reduces the amount of trees cut down and plastic wasted. Walking or riding a bike instead of driving a car to reduces the amount of gasses put into the atmosphere. Reusable water bottles to reduce the amount of plastic used every day, versus using disposable plastic bottles. Finally, using electronics instead of actual paper is a good way to use less paper. Fortunately, may schools have already started promoting this, by requiring most papers to be submitted online instead of in print, and having digital homework. If you want to be part of a global organization, donate now to the World Wildlife Fund, or join Greenpeace. To take action now, join the organization Keep Tampa Bay Beautiful with their garbage cleanups, which occur every weekend at different areas around Tampa. There are many easy ways to help the environment every day, as long as one is willing to do take the time to make a difference. If you want to join the growing trend, try meatless monday. This is a way to get healthy and help the environment. It was found that livestock produce 14% of global greenhouse gas emissions, and the world going vegetarian could cut this amount by 63% (Worland, 2016). Even going vegetarian one day a week will make a difference. This would reduce the amount of Reges 5 livestock needed to be produced, and reduce the amount of emissions they produce. The vegetarian diet promotes eating more fruits and vegetables, and overall having a healthier diet, which in the long term could save lives. For many people, giving up meat completely is impossible, but trying it at least one day a week and then possibly integrating it into their everyday life is a great choice. A person who really cared about the environment and its animals would want to go vegetarian. Humans have not been caring for the earth as much as it cares for us. While it does what it can to keep humans safe and alive, the damage humans have done through pollution to earth has become out of control, so we need to act now to prevent any more damage from occurring. This can be done through reducing our own carbon footprint, and by going vegetarian, at least once a week. If everyone does their part, and tries to be more aware of the issues going on in the environment, they will leave the world cleaner for future generations. Reges 6 Works Cited and Environmental Effects on Air Department of Environmental Protection, http://www.mass.gov/eea/docs/dep/air/aq/health-and-env-effects-air-pollutions.pd f Thomas, C. D., A. Cameron, R. E. Green, M. Bakkenes, L. J. Beaumont, Y. C. Collingham, B. F. N. Erasmus, M. Ferreira de Siqueira, A. Grainger, Lee Hannah, L. Hughes, Brian Huntley, A. S. van Jaarsveld, G. F. Midgley, L. Miles, M. A. Ortega-Huerta, A. Townsend Peterson, O. L. Phillips, and S. E. Williams. risk from climate vol 427, 2003, pp. Orme, Helen. in Bearport Publishing, 2008. Myths and Action Network, http://www.panna.org/pesticides-big-picture/myths-facts Bay Program, Great Pacific Garbage Geographic, Sept. 2014, http://www.nationalgeographic.org/encyclopedia/great-pacific-garbage-patch/ Total Insecticide, Fungicide, Herbicide, and Other Pesticide Per Acre US Crop Production: 2002. Washington D.C. Jenks-Natural Breaks Classification. nd%20lbs%20per%20acre.jpg Vierkotter A. pollution and skin 4,3, 2012, 227-231. Reges 7 Worland, Justin. a Vegetarian Diet Could Help Save the Inc, http://time.com/4266874/vegetarian-diet-climate-change/