Humphreys 1 Lucelle Humphreys ENC 1102 Instructor Dubois 30 April 2017 Change for Mental Illness Mental illness is one of the leading health issue categories in America yet people are very unaware about them. People do not think of mental illnesses as disabilities because you see them when you look someone. This stems from a lack of education and awareness of the general population. Lack of knowledge can be detrimental to lives for many different reasons. There is also a social stigma around mental illnesses that causes people to look negatively at those who suffer. This stigma is a result of many years of people not taking the time to understand. In order to improve the lives of people afflicted with mental illnesses, the general population of the United States needs to be educated about it and taught the common symptoms of these illnesses. People also need to stop these negative and often unfair beliefs of those who are suffering and sympathize with them instead, while looking for ways to assist. Millions of adults and children suffer from mental illnesses every day. According to Jonathan Nalli, one in five U.S. 43.8 million experience mental illness in a given (Nalli). Think of this in terms of mothers, brothers, and best friends, actively suffering but their family and friends not knowing. If there is this many people knowingly suffering, education and awareness needs to be more common. Educating the population will decrease this stigma, decrease the number of people unaware of their illnesses and increase those being brought to enlightenment and understanding about so much of the population of America. According to Health Facts Children and of youth Humphreys 2 ages 13-18 live with a mental health That is a large percentage of children suffering on a daily basis. Many children do not get proper healthcare or do not properly identify their illnesses until their early which is even worse (Media Alert). Mothers and fathers want to protect and care for their children in every way possible, yet they wait so long to seek attention for their mental state. In most cases this is because parents are unaware of these disabilities. It should be common for parents, or anyone for that matter, to know about common symptoms of mental illnesses. Knowledge and education about mental illnesses should be as common as education for illnesses like cancer and herpes. Education for children is also important in order to make identification of disabilities more common. Children who suffer from mental illnesses often feel out of place or because they are not like the rest of their peers. If children were taught about the common symptoms of mental illnesses in their health classes, this would increase knowledge. The prevalence of mental illnesses is high and awareness for Americans needs to be increased. There is also a big stigma surrounding mental illnesses and those who suffer from them. According to Dr.Gram, mental health stigma may be prejudicial and discriminating behavior (social stigma) or internalized stigma about own perceptions of discrimination (self- stigma) (Dr.Gram). Many people with mental illnesses have stigma directed towards them by family and peers. A large cause of these preconceived notions is due to many Americans being uneducated about the ailments. People throughout history have been treated in an unfavorable way thus creating an overall negative attitude towards the subject. This began long ago in the days when research and understanding of the various types of illnesses was minimal to nonexistent. Sufferers can also have internalized stigmas because they feel like they are being judged or stigmatized. This is usually a part of their illness but may just be self-consciousness. Humphreys 3 These people feel out of place or on display and often keep to themselves as a result. They want to feel embarrassed when they figure out what words to say or stutter in the middle of a sentence. They feel like people are constantly aware of their shakes and twitches. This is why it is important to have increased awareness of common symptoms of mental illnesses. This way people will not criticize others who suffer from certain physical symptoms of their mental disability. People will instead sympathize with suffers and be more patient with them. Everyone should care about mental health because it negatively impacts so many people. Even if you personally experience the effects of mental illnesses someone around you may feel those impacts. Mental illness does not care who it affects and can be caused by different things such as genetics, infections and brain defects or injuries (The Kim Foundation). It is common that the first signs of these illnesses show up in childhood and early adolescence. Just as with many other illnesses or injuries, the sooner the proper treatment begins the better. The best way to increase this early identification of illnesses is to educate teachers about common symptoms. It is also important to make education of children be mandatory in the school systems so they can self-identify or help a peer. It is so common for children to spend all day with their friends in and out of school and sometimes peers know more about each other than parents or family. Common knowledge of mental illness symptoms should thus be increased. It is important that everyone gets educated about common mental illnesses and their symptoms. If knowledge about these ailments were more commonplace, than many people who are unaware of their illness could be diagnosed or advised to seek diagnosis. To get information about mental illnesses visit nami.org or mentalhealthamerica.net. There are people working every day to advocate for mental health patients. These people strive to increase awareness and education for mental illnesses and symptoms involved. To help increase quality mental illness Humphreys 4 education you can donate to these organizations or speak out about mental illnesses. The easiest thing that anyone can do to reduce the effects of this topic is to reduce their own stigma towards those people with illnesses. It is so simple to just be understanding and empathetic towards those suffering. One way to reduce a stigma is to get educated about the facts around it. When a person is educated about mental health, they will realize the prevalence of mental illness and that symptoms are sometimes very identifiable. For patients with mental illnesses, it may help to talk about their illness in order to decrease their own self-stigma. This also will increase common awareness of mental illnesses allowing people to be more understanding. Another way to decrease mental illnesses is to increase mental illness education in schools for children. According to Ellen Lubel, based mental health programs can help identify and treat children that show signs of mental illnesses that may not have caught the attention of teachers and (Julee Newberger). Putting mental health programs in place in schools is something that decreases the stigma for children who suffer from mental illnesses. This is also something that will decrease the large number of children that go untreated for their mental health state. All of these things together will decrease the effects of mental illnesses in America. Mental illnesses are something that are not commonly talked about and thus carry negative views with them. The general population of Americans are not well educated about them. This is detrimental to our society because people go unaware and untreated for their illnesses. A large number of American children and adults suffer from some sort of mental illnesses for knowledge to be so low. Education and reduction of stigma needs to be increased in order to decrease the effects of this topic. A health issue that impacts this many people should be something more commonly talked about, without stigma and prejudice. Humphreys 5 Works Cited Mental Illnesses The Kim Foundation. Accessed 15 April 2017. Dr.Davey, Graham. Health and Psychology Today. Accesses 14 April 2017. www.psychologytoday.com/blog/why-we-worry/201308/mental-health-stigma EMQ, FamiliesFirst. Alert: Mental Health Day, May 9 Statistics on Youth Who Struggle with Mental Business Wire (English), Aug. 005. EBSCOhost, exproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login Health Facts Children and National Alliance on Mental Health. Accessed 14 April 2017. www.nami.org/NAMI/media/NAMI-Media/Infographics/Children-MH- Facts-NAMI.pdf Nalli, Jonathan. on mental health, but a ways to Indianapolis Business Journal. 24-30 October 2016. Accessed 25 April 2017. eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=5&sid=48807215-5ec2-4dda-b8a9- fd3d998b3a08%40sessionmgr102 Newberger, Julee and Washington, DC. Benton Foundation. Based Mental Health Services Help Kids Connect for Kids: Guidence for Grown-Ups. 13 March 2002. EBSCOhost.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login