Alqallaf 1 Haasan Alqallaf Mariama Changmire Enc 1102 27 Febraury 2017 Video Games and Violence The past few years have experienced dramatic changes in video games and the entire video industry. The transformation accounts for the innovation that resulted to changes from the 2D arcade devices to the 3D graphics that are more realistic. The entire revolution has completely transformed the content and images of what children watch on TV screens. The 3D graphics also changed the environment that games are displayed. It takes place in the full glare of gamers. Today, video games make it possible for the interaction among objects, players and characters in invaluable ways that never existed before. In the process, gamers have the opportunity to interact highly with players. Similarly, they engage them through immersive techniques. It is for this reason that this discourse sets out to evaluate violence in gaming. The study examines two images and uses the same to comprehend whether the results are deliberate, on the increase and recognized by the gaming world. Reports from the American Psychological Association show patterned relationships between violence and video games. The patterns are consistent hence; leads to increased aggressive cognitions. Other identified results are aggressive impacts, hostile behaviors, as well as reduced features that support social behaviors, empathy to hostility, and sensitivity. This area also constitutes an important segment evaluated in the paper. It is worth noting that images analyzed in this paper are of value to concerns identified by stakeholders. Alqallaf 2 Fundamentally, the American Psychological Association (APA) is an institution that deals issues that affect the society. The APA has over the past few years, sanctioned various research programs on video games. The studies have covered many areas including the notion that video games result into violent behavior. It is a rationale that has raised stormy debates both in the professional sphere and public domain. A report by the APA Task Force on Violent Media shows that there is a direct connection between playing video games and instances of increased aggression. The same situation is inversely related to social behavior as continued playing of video games leads to reduced pro-social behavior. Furthermore, reduced sensitivity to hostility gets limited evidence-based support although it shows some flashes of the same. Evidentially, stakeholders prove a patterned relationship between video games and violence. Video games with violent features are found to result in hostility effects, aggressive way of life, and a reduction in features that support social behaviors. Furthermore, the image portrays a child that is closed off from social interaction and that goes against ethics; especially because children are practicing violent behaviors constantly within videogames. also confirmed as causes of minimal empathy towards hostility and sensitivity. Research studies sanctioned by APA demonstrate elements of variation. However, most of the concur that a hitherto relationship between violence and video games. It is the consistency of the pattern that was based upon to draft and document conclusions reached (Greitemeyer et al. 122). From the report, APA laid down a requirement for the Entertainment Software Rating Board to exclusively, separate- through law- the environment of video games. Actually, APA stakeholders aimed at using the requirement to isolate appropriate games for users falling in the psychological age and development. Alqallaf 3 Early childhood is an essential stage of development for children as it has features that shape their children throughout. Everything learnt by a child during this stage carries the potential to shape his life into maturity. Therefore, children consuming information with negative influences is likely to be reflected in their adulthood. This explains why the image analyzed in this study shows a child. Evidence is provided by the size of the head in the image. Presumably, the child is playing a video game while seated in front of screen-large in size (Cunningham et al. 1248). Without instituting adequate control measure, the child will be addicted considering that the game is addictive. Once addicted, the behavior will be disgusting as the child will not derive joy in any other leisure activity. More so, the child will be rebellious against engaging in any productive endeavor when at home. The child will also find it hard to socialize and study with family members and friends who do not take part in the games. In the second image, although it seems like these two kids are interacting with each other through the game, logically it would be better for the kids to go outside and play with their friends as it is a better way of socializing.Video games would have had their first impact; minimizing pro-social behavior. It will reduce empathy to aggressions and sensitivity. The effect of the video game on the child can only be described as adverse. Subsequently, it will lead to other behaviors described as hostile. Two children appear in the second image with gaming pads in their hands. Again, just like in the first image, they are presumed to be playing video games. Typically, the image shows how addictive playing video games can be. Addiction develops when children-teens- spend more time in front of large screens playing the said video games. Deductively, playing video games offers the medium of socialization among these groups. Analysis of the second leads to this deductive conclusion. In many aspects, video games as a medium of socialization contribute Alqallaf 4 greatly to violent and unethical behavior within the family, community and society. The impacts of playing video games are not only adverse, but result in uncouth behavior even though images do not reveal this feature. Studies sanctioned by APA show that playing video games forms the source of children developing queer behavior. This is depicted in gaming consoles, violent practices as well as behaviors that result in hostility. To begin with, evidence shows that video games impair with the psychology of children. Children start limiting levels of interaction with family members and friends who do not participate in these games. This is an element of psychological isolation. At this juncture, players in the video games become the role models for children. They therefore, begin to take after their characteristics. These are first steps towards bad and hostile behaviors which include obscene languages, aggressive behaviors, and related behavioral features. The features demonstrate that playing violent video games results in hostile behaviors among children. Letting children playing video games is exposing them to risks that have long-term mental influences. The age factor is a reason that exposure to these video games is a risk. Violent games have content that lead to mental instability in children. Jia-Kun et al., write that video games account for barbital children by shifting their focus and the focal point. Diversion is from essential goals of developing through education. Knowledge gained is crucial to addressing issues within the society. Failure to deal with the negative attitudes leads to poor academic performance. Time taken playing video games is directly proportional to academic performance. The two correlate. It is of consequence to comprehend that more time spend on video games makes children develop abusive, obscene and obsessive languages. In turn, they interfere with the psychological stability of their minds. Alqallaf 5 What video contains significantly influences the life of a child. Therefore, if the content is good then, the child will be in apposition to develop new skills. However, if the content has violent features, the child will be adversely affected. The results of latest studies show that a minimum of 90% of all video games have violent aspects (1748). Of the 90%, at 50% have serious violent characteristics. This means that more of them have negative effects in the development of these children. On the flipside, there are studies that dispute evidenced facts that violent video games influence children negatively. Findings by Weinreich et al., show that identified violent games among them Halo and Mortal Combat do not impact children negatively (60). They do not show any signs of depression after playing the games. Essentially, children did not show delinquency and did not become bullies. Aggression manifests itself in various ways among them using obscene language that remains unethical and hostility. The feature is proved by different research studies sanctioned by APA. Studies that concur on this are correct. Video games have the ability to impact children either positively or negatively. The two pictures shown represent the case of how video games can be violent towards people and especially children by showing signs of logos and ethos etc. Researchers and APA stakeholders are challenged to exploit this gap by sanctioning more specific studies to separate negative from positive ones. Children start limiting levels of interaction with family members and friends who do not participate in these games. This is an element of psychological isolation. At this juncture, players in the video games become the role models for children. They therefore, begin to take after their characteristics. Video games make it possible for the interaction among objects, players and characters in invaluable ways that never existed before. Alqallaf 6 First Image Second Image Alqallaf 7 Works Cited Cunningham, Scott, Benjamin and Michael R. Ward. Understanding the Effects of Violent Video Games on Violent  SSRN Electronic Journal (n.d.): n. pag. Web. Greitemeyer, Tobias, and Silvia Osswald. Playing Prosocial Video Games Increases the Accessibility of Prosocial  The Journal of Social Psychology 151.2 (2011): 121-28. Web. Zheng, Jia-Kun, and Qian Zhang. Priming effect of computer game violence on aggression  Social Behavior and Personality: an international journal 44.10 (2016): 1747-759. Web. Twose, Gabriel. Foreward to the Society for the Psychological Study of Social Research Summary on Media  Analyses of Social Issues and Public Policy 15.1 (2015): 1-3. Web. Weinreich, Tilo Strobach, and Torsten Schubert. Expertise in video game playing is associated with reduced valence-concordant emotional expressivity. 52.1 (2014): 59-66. Web.