Agudelo 1 Maria Agudelo Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 April 29, 2017 The Importance of Euthanasia The legalization of euthanasia has been a controversial topic for the past couple of years due to the ethical and moral dilemmas that accompany it, but more so because of the many misconceptions that surround it. Euthanasia is a medical resource that provides the option for terminally ill patients to make their own end-of-life decisions. Life should be a matter of choice and those who are suffering in pain because of a terminal illness should have the power to control their destiny. According to the Merriam-Webster Dictionary, euthanasia is defined as act or practice of killing or permitting the death of hopelessly sick or injured individuals in a relatively painless way for reasons of Euthanasia has been legalized in California, Colorado, the District of Columbia, Oregon, Vermont and Washington, because of a series of laws called the Death with Dignity laws. However, the remaining 44 states consider euthanasia and physician assisted suicide a criminal offense. The Death with Dignity laws allow mentally competent terminally-ill adults to receive a prescription so they can die peacefully, in a humane manner in the place and time of their choice. One of the largest misconceptions that come with the legalization of euthanasia, is the belief that anyone who has a terminal illness can utilize this resource. This is false, to be eligible for euthanasia or physician assisted suicide a patient must meet some criteria. The requirements are that the patient must be over the age of 18, diagnosed with a terminal illness that will lead to death within six months, be a legal resident of one of the 6 states in which euthanasia and Agudelo 2 physician assisted suicide are legal, be mentally competent and be able to self-administer and ingest the prescribed medications. Lastly, two physicians must determine whether or not a patient meets all the criteria Death with Dignity National Center). As mentioned above, the choice of euthanasia is something made by the patients after they have deemed their treatment un-helpful and/or their living conditions in-humane, and have been deemed eligible by two physicians. These people are able to think clearly, but most of them live miserable lives and would rather utilize euthanasia because they believe in over (Wijngaarden, Leget, & Goossensen). Unfortunately, if these people live in any of the 44 states in which euthanasia is illegal, they must continue to live in those conditions until they die of natural causes or figure out a way to move their whole life to another state in which euthanasia is an option. The law has been proposed in different states such as Massachusetts, but because there is a wide number of people whose religious believes encourage them to disagree with the act of providing someone the means to end their life it has failed several times. However, legalizing euthanasia does not mean that everyone who meets the criteria must utilize the resource. It is simply giving an option to those who believe they have no other option, or do not want to live their last months in pain and suffering. David Bender said in his book Problems of Death: Opposing Viewpoints emphasis of euthanasia should be placed on the purpose of the act, not the nature of the This quote is extremely powerful, because it argues with those who believe that euthanasia is murdering someone. Essentially, it is saying that you should focus on the reasons behind your actions and the purpose of them, instead of the superficial definition of such act. The legalization of euthanasia in the United States has a long way to go, but it is possible to work towards it in small steps. One of the possibilities to start implementing this law in the Agudelo 3 United States would be to have conversations with the government of countries in which euthanasia is currently legal, such as the Netherlands, Belgium, Colombia, Switzerland, Germany, Japan and Canada (Emanuel). These countries have had euthanasia legalized for at least a year, and so far, they have not encountered any major issues. The United States is currently trying to move towards the legalization of euthanasia, but at this time it is being proposed in individual states and passed or failed depending on the outcome of the votes. Euthanasia could be legalized nationwide if it was proposed correctly, with the correct guidelines. It is proposed that each individual case in which a patient wants to end their life through euthanasia, goes to a sort of trial. The trial will be run by a group of doctors, psychiatrists and religious leaders who have been pre-selected for the task. This group, will come together and determine whether the living conditions, the illness and the mental state of the patient make him or her eligible for euthanasia. The trial should not take more than a week, and there would be a task force of the pre-selected professionals in one major hospital per state. By following this simple step, people who wish to end their life because of their terminal illness, have the opportunity to get advice and guidance from knowledgeable professionals and religious counselors. . According to Norton and Miller, ending your own life by using euthanasia is not a simple process because it takes into consideration several different factors. A few of these factors include but are not limited to the values, their family and friends, as well as weighing the options; in this case the options would be to end their life, or if offered to continue to undergo treatment for their illness. The hospice social workers are another factor considered in this process, as they would be the ones aiding the patient to end their life. Ending your own life is something that should not be condoned and it is concerning when someone with a healthy life choses to do so, when it comes to situations such as a terminal Agudelo 4 illness it is arguable that it is the best choice. People with terminal illnesses often suffer, because they feel they are a burden on their families or caregivers. They do not have the ability to do simple things such as using the restroom, eating their own food or brushing their teeth. Imagine living a life like this. Imagine being diagnosed with cancer and going through chemotherapy but no matter what you do it keeps coming back and attacking even more of your organs. There comes a point where it is not worth fighting anymore, because your body is so weak from all of the treatments that you are unable to get out of bed and are just living miserably waiting for your time to come. Others who have been diagnosed with terminal illnesses do not want to see themselves suffering, and want to end their life because they are satisfied with the life they have lived so far. In cases like this, euthanasia would be the most viable option With that being said, the fact that euthanasia is legalized does not mean that every person who has less than six months to live due to a terminal illness must utilize euthanasia. That is the benefit of legalizing it, does who want to utilize this mean to end their own life can do so and those who are against it can continue to live their lives. If you are interested in learning more about euthanasia, there are several organizations out there that raise awareness and advocate for it, such as the Death with Dignity National Center. The Death with Dignity National Center is a nonprofit organization that expands the freedom of all qualified terminally ill Americans to make their own end-of-life decisions, including how they die Us: Death with Dignity National The legalization of euthanasia would simply mean providing those who are suffering a less painful and quicker way to die, instead of spending their last days suffering in misery. The liberty to make your own choice when it comes to end pain and suffering because of a terminal illness is something that should be considered thoroughly. If someone decides to utilize Agudelo 5 euthanasia or physician assisted suicide, there should not be any controversy if it is performed in the appropriate manners. (Word count: 1372) Agudelo 6 Works Cited Bender, David L. Problems of Death. St. Paul: Greenhaven, 1981. Emanuel, Ezekiel J., et al. Attitudes and Practices of Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted Suicide in the United States, Canada, and  JAMA: Journal of the American Medical Association, vol. 316, no. 1, 05 July 2016, pp. 79-90. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1001/jama.2016.8499. Axel. Euthanasia and Mental Suffering: An Ethical Advice for Catholic Mental Health  Christian Bioethics: Non-Ecumenical Studies in Medical Morality, vol. 19, no. 1, Apr. 2013, pp. 72-81. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=a2h&AN=86865818&site=eds-live. Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017 Norton, & Miller, RB. Suicide And Euthanasia: Arguments For And Against Practice, Legalization And Journal Of Pharmaceutical Care In Pain 7 Symptom Control 3.3/4 (1995): 11-41. CINAHL Complete. Web 25 Jan. 2017. Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. Van Wijngaarden, EJ, Leget, CW, & Goossensen, A 2016, Death Do Us Part: The Lived Experience of an Elderly Couple Who Chose to End Their Lives by Spousal Self- Gerontologist, vol. 56, no. 6, pp. 1062-1071.