Shanks 1 Mariah Shanks Enc1102 Dubois 29 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate draft In recent years, Animal cruelty has started to become a popular topic that most companies have found themselves trying to put an end to. In the past, due to a lack of technological advances, most companies found it safer to test their products on animals since it gave a better understanding on what was safe for humans to use (Gauging Cosmetic Safety). The Animal Welfare Act, passed in 1966, diminishes the option of the type of animals that can be used during research or testing (Animal Testing). This can be implied that though animals like cats and dogs are not allowed to be tested on, animals like mice and rats are the ones in danger within the guidelines of this act. These specific animals are typically used to carry out some procedures of companies, like Revlon and Benefit, that we know of today. Since testing on animals has recently started to gain recognition, younger generations have become more exposed to the popularity of animal cruelty brands like LUSH cosmetics. Older adults are more prone to using the products of companies that still test on animals since they simply are not educated on the topic, the adults can learn about the different products and change to cruelty-free brands. Testing on animals began in the early centuries of the world when an Arab physician found a way to test on animals to practice certain surgical procedures. He completed this before doing his procedures on humans to make sure he harm his actual patients (Gauging Cosmetic Safety). According to by Joel P. McClellan, the true definition of animal testing is use of nonhuman animals for research purposes, particularly medical Shanks 2 (Animal Testing). It was not till 1938 in which The United States Food, Drug, & Cosmetic Act was passed and signed that companies were encouraged to test their products on animals to make sure the products are safe. Not only did these products make the animals suffer from the types of chemicals and substances in the products. But it was also known in the early 40s to be the standard when it came to checking if the cosmetics were safe (Timeline: Cosmetics Testing on Animals). Rodents such as mice and rats are said to be of good use in cosmetic testing since 95% of their genetics are shared with humans which gives the doctors and experimenters an result (Gauging Cosmetic Safety). Over the years many countries around the world have completely banned animal tested products to be imported into their country. They also have banned the practice completely in places like Taiwan, Turkey, New Zealand, and Guatemala which is the first country in the Americas to ban animal testing on cosmetics (Timeline: Cosmetics Testing on Animals). In the earlier years, the problem of animal cruelty was not a big issue as it is today. This can explain why the older generations from these times have had trouble with understand the bigger picture on why the abuse on animals needs to stop. Though the Animal Welfare Act was passed banning the test on dogs and other bigger animals. Mice and rats should be on that same level assuring that they will not be hurt in the process of making sure humans are safe. The companies that are around today have sometimes stated that they are cruelty free and do not test their products on animals. But most of them are not actually telling the truth about this. According to fda.gov, products and ingredients, and their labeling, do not require FDA approval before they go on the (Is it really Often people think that since something is FDA approved it is automatically or cruelty-free. But as stated above, all in all it is more than likely not to be. So, when a cosmetic brands bottle has FDA Shanks 3 approved on the label or in the ingredients section. It is more likely than not to be approved by the actual FDA, which makes a person wonder why they would use a product that is lying straight on their label. Another example of companies being secretive with their customers would be with the cosmetic brand Revlon. Revlon can be described as, according to the website, a long-standing reputation as a trendsetter in the world of cosmetics, skin care, fragrance, and personal care. vision is to provide glamour, excitement and innovation through quality products at affordable (Revlon Animal Testing Policy). Later, their website states that they do not partake in animal testing but, believe that women should have the opportunity to express themselves through makeup, so we sell our products in many markets around the world and as such, are subject to local rules and (Revlon Animal Testing Policy). Revlon wants people to believe that they are solely cruelty but they continue to sell and produce their products in places where animal testing is the law. According to a blog post on Peta.org, Revlon sells their products to China in which animal testing is required. They later state a hypothetical that speaks about Revlon and how they might be still testing on animals no matter what the public thinks. Except they pay the Chinese to keep quiet on the issue (Why PETA is seriously ticked off at Revlon). Any product that a person uses can be easily traceable to find the truth on if they are cruelty-free or not. Companies tend to speak and state different statements regarding their products on their websites. But it is always important to go further and research more about them, rather than on their actual sites to avoid major bias. Though older generations are less educated on the topic of animal testing for cosmetics there is many brands that they can switch over to that sell the same products but this time they are all natural and cruelty-free. Many older adults have been using their products for some time Shanks 4 so it may be harder for them to switch over to cruelty free products. But with the innovation of products that were made to end the fight about animal testing, the switch is made to be easier. With the click of a button, older adults can research the products that they are using and can find brands that are cruelty-free. For example, the company LUSH Cosmetics is a brand that is very much against animal cruelty, their mission statement states, want to show everyone in the world that it is possible for a brand to be able to manufacture and invent many products that tested on helpless (Fighting Animal Testing Lush). Lush puts on several events to encourage others to buy their products and raise awareness about cruelty with animals. For example, they put on a campaign called Cruelty Free Kisses in which on national kissing day, they encouraged people to come into their store and buy lipstick and other products so they can help raise awareness about the cause at hand (Lush Cruelty Free Kisses). Lastly, Lush has conducted a prize that awards $31,2037.50 to a group or an individual who shows continuous participation and work in the research tied into animal testing (Lush launches 250k). Other companies other than LUSH that are considered cruelty-free is Colorpop, E.L.F., and Wet Wild (List of officially cruelty free brands). Lush is a brand that makes everything from makeup to body wash, which van make the switch easier. The products mentioned are just some brands that are cruelty-free. By buying these products you are saving innocent rabbits and rats lives by using products that use alternate options instead of actual testing on animals. As the older generation blends into the current, we can help put an end to cosmetic testing on animals. The products that are used should be thoroughly researched about and provide more education on what goes on through the process of testing cosmetics. When the research is done, older adults can make the decision to make the switch. There are many companies that are out there that make the same kinds of cosmetics but they are cruelty-free. Shanks 5 Older adults are more prone to using the products of companies that still test on animals since they simply are not educated on the topic, the adults can learn about the different products and change to cruelty-free brands. Shanks 6 Works Cited: Commissioner, Office Of the. Consumer Updates - Is It Really  U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page. Office of the Commissioner, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Lush launches 250k [pounds annual prize fund to end animal  Cosmetics International 2012: 13. General OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. List Of Cruelty-Free Brands -  Cruelty-Free Kitty. N.p., 8 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. MacClellan, Joel P. Animal  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=ers&AN=89473959&site=eds-live. Revlon Products: Makeup, Fragrances, Hair Color, Nails, Beauty  Revlon. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ross-Fichtner, Robert1 and Daniel1 Noble. Gauging Cosmetic  Cosmetics & Toiletries, Jan/Feb2016, pp. 16-19. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=aci&AN=112782289&site=eds-live. Shanks 7 Still Fighting Against Animal  Still Fighting Against Animal Testing. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Timeline: Cosmetics Testing on  The Humane Society of the United States. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Why PETA Is Seriously Ticked Off at Revlon-and You Should Be,  PETA. N.p., 14 Oct. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.