Torres !1 Alexandria Torres Erika Straiger ENC1102 16 April 2017 Oil Drilling Killing Our Oceans 1897 the first offshore well began pumping up oil from the ocean floor and since then around 182 known oil spills have (CNN). It has also been recorded that 746 million gallons of oil have spilled into the ocean since (CNN), so only imagine how bad it was when oil companies were first discovering how to drill for oil within the ocean. Oil drilling causes environmental destruction, such as killing beautiful marine life and ecosystems. Oil drilling also can destroy the economy, by damaging fishing populations as well as tourism. Drilling also risks human life when a spill occurs by releasing deadly chemicals into the water. As a generation who gets looked down upon for using social media and technology to connect, as students who only live 30 minutes to an hour from some beaches the need to raise awareness about what oil drilling is really doing to our planet is dire. All it takes is one Twitter post or Instagram photo to change someones view point or help spread the awareness of what oil companies are doing. Even the little things matter at this point, carpool to classes or events, ride a bike, cutting down on the use of oil will create a difference. Firstly, it is nothing new that when an oil rig has a spill it has detrimental effects but they are not are not commonly known. Though researchers have studied just some of the effects ocean drilling has had on ecosystems around the rig that spilled. Students Hong and Yanji from the Ocean University in China studied who studied oil spills found oil spills happen in the Torres !2 spawning season or spawning central region, oil pollution will cause low survival rate and high deformity and death rate of fish eggs because the eggs and larvae in the early stage of development are extremely (Hong 315). Companies such as shell and BP only care about the companies total revenue at the end of term, not about the ecosystems they kill by taking short cuts. In 2010 BP was found guilty of cutting corners and that is what causes the valve to bust, causing the oil spill to occur. Though just a malfunction spill is not all these companies are doing to kill the beautiful oceans, some oil companies are also waste dumping. Another group of scientist released an article about how humans are causing salting of the Earth in this article they discuss oil drilling on land and offshore. some estimates, as much as 5% of all oil and gas wastewater produced in the United States is accidentally or illegally released into the environment (Konkel 2). Once a marine habitat is destroyed it may never come back, if it does it takes years to be stable and hold diverse life. Hong states, oil spills happen, we should take into consideration the priority of conservation according to the degree of sensitivity to spilled out for the policy-makers to make emergency (Hong 315). If the oil companies and the government are not fully caring about the effects of unsafe procedures taking place on oil rigs, someone has to fight for the marine wildlife and even planet Earth because in the end everything circles back to the ocean. Furthermore, it has been found that when an oil spill occurs the economy around the spill is drastically impacted. Fish are the greatest supply of protein eaten by humans; therefore causing it to be one of the largest parts of the United States next to oil drilling. Hong states oil spills will do damage to marine biological, fishery, seawater, tourism and mineral resources to various extents, which will contribute to the lower quality and lower value of marine Torres !3 resources (Hong 314). An oil spill does not only kill of the diverse population of fish, it also makes them evacuate that area and find new homes. When fish leave an area it causes even more damage because then other populations have to move as well because their food source is gone; that is if they survived. This chain reaction causes fishing in that area to decline rapidly. As for tourism, no one wants to walk on a beach slicked in oil with dead fish, birds, and other animals along the shore. Oil spills kill the ocean and the economy and that is easy to see. Lastly, oil spills have been shown to decline health due to the chemicals within oil. There are small villages and towns near the shores of some oil rigs who do not have the same amount of technology as the United States does. Therefore, when an oil spill occurs it can cause detrimental effects to them. People such as the the village of Bodo live off of the water near them from fishing, drinking water, to bathing. When that precious water gets polluted it causes health issues to arise, because oil has chemicals that can cause health issues such as cancer and heart issues. Our beaches are important to us but to the people living on them to survive it is their life line. Researchers studied the Bodo and spills near it and how it effected the small villages. During an interview community members said water was used for a variety of domestic uses, as well as for medicinal and healing (Fentiman 618). That is just the effect in a small town, it has been found that after oil spills properties of oil can be found within fish people eat within the U.S. Not only is the health on the line but so is the human species. The ocean can not speak, fight or protest against what we as humans do to her. Oil drilling is an exponential factor within any economy, but the need for oil is getting to large. As the need for oil has gone up companies have been breaking rules and cutting corners to be able to meet quotas, causing oil spills and fracking to be done. Scientist from PLOS have studied the Torres !4 consequences that will occur if we increase doing what we are now and the is a degree rise in sea water (Karmalkar). The ocean is where life started and will be where life ends if humans keep destroying it. Ocean drilling can not be fully stopped at this point in time, but as a generation there are ways to slow down the effects. The use of social media to spread the word about what oil companies are doing behind the common peoples backs and save the planet before it is destroyed more than it already is. USF has over forty-two thousand students, the average student has around 20-50 followers on their twitter account and 200-500 followers on their Instagram account. As a generation the time spent on social media is insane, but it works. Trump used twitter to spark competition and get views during the election. What if instead of using social media for pointless post, USF students use it to post how oil drilling is slowly killing not only the ocean but also the Earth. Social media is a way to give the Earth and oceans a voice, but there is another way USF students can help slowly end oil drilling and the addiction of oil. All it takes is cutting down on the use of oil. 75% of USF students drive to class about four times a week for about ten to fifteen minutes plus driving home for weekends and holidays. In a years total that will be around 18 tons of CO2 for just one person. But if USF students carpooled to class it would cut down on CO2 emissions and oil usage greatly. Even if the percentage of students who walked to class instead of drove went up it would help end oil drilling. By cutting down the need for oil, the risk that oil companies take to get that oil will go down and less oil will be spilled. It is the little things that make the big difference. Torres !5 Works Cited Centm. Average Number of Twitter Followers is 208: Twitter Stats  Your Escape From 9 to 5. N.p., 28 Jan. 2016. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Earthontheedge. How much CO2 are you  Earth on the Edge. N.p., 02 Aug. 2015. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Fentiman, Alicia and Nenibarini Zabbey. Environmental Degradation and Cultural Erosion in Ogoniland: A Case Study of the Oil Spills in  The Extractive Industries and Society, vol. 2, 01 Dec. 2015, pp. 615-624. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.exis.2015.05.008. Florida, University Of South.  University of South Florida. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Karmalkar, Ambarish V. and Raymond S. Bradley. Consequences of Global Warming of 1.5 and 2 for Regional Temperature and Precipitation Changes in the Contiguous United  Plos ONE, vol. 12, no. 1, 11 Jan. 2017, pp. 1-17. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1371/ journal.pone.0168697. Konkel, Lindsey. Salting the Earth the Environmental Impact of Oil and Gas Wastewater  Environmental Health Perspectives, vol. 124, no. 12, Dec. 2016, pp. A230-A235. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1289/ehp.124-A230. Mei, Hong, and Yanjie Yin. Studies on marine oil spills and their ecological  Journal of Ocean University of China 8.3 (2009): 312-16. Web. Oil Spills Fast  CNN. Cable News Network, 09 Feb. 2017. Web. 20 Apr. 2017.Torrice, Michale. Torres !6 Science Lags on Saving the Arctic from Oil  Science, vol. 325, no. 5946, 11 Sept. 2009, p. 1335. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http:// search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=egh&AN=44460239&site=eds-live.