Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 16 April 2017 Education for Non-English Speaking Students The English language needs of Non-English speakers who want to study in English speaking countries have become an issue of concern. A whole variety of English educational institutions are now appeared all around the world. Nowadays, in order to solicit more students and give Non-English speakers chance to study in English speaking countries, many universities establish specialized courses in English education, like English as a second language (ESL; general English), and English for academic purposes (EAP). The English language classes are really useful for Non-English speakers, especially for Chinese students, which have a totally different language and education systems with English speakers. Although taking English education before studying abroad have flourished in Non-English speakers, English education supported by universities in English speaking countries have more benefit to promote English learning in academically and socially, and thus universities should organize more various English education for Non-English speaking students. English education in English speaking countries give Non-English speakers several choice to adapt the academic live in English learning. There is a wild scramble to open courses in English speaking universities, which are aimed at Non-English speakers. Non-English speakers can choose to learn academic English in their universities conveniently, which provides a lot of different professional organizations and courses. Almost every University in English Speaking Student 2 countries has the basic curriculum for Non-English speakers, which called content-based courses. There are three characteristics for content-based courses: general lecture followed by ESL students having a specific tutorial with an ESL options, counting for credit, designed to teach some program content along with specific language and run specifically for ESL student and taught by lecturers with both subject and ESL Newell and Cole). Improving on what has been achieved, the universities have a development of a more flexible education systems. According to Cruickshank, Newell, and Cole, there are four different education tools: Content Based modules, Small Group Tutorials, Tutoring/Mentoring, and Self-directed Learning. For content-based modules, the initial module focused on building tertiary study skills in academic reading and writing, study skills and referencing. The final module has a dual focus on oral and written English (Cruickshank, Newell and Cole 243). Obviously, there are several different kinds of education flexible support model in every university, which tailored to the needs of the Non-English speakers. Thus, English education in English speaking countries give Non-English speakers several choice to adapt the academic live in English learning. Although there are systematic courses for Non-English speakers, the significant problem for most of the Non-English speakers when they studying English is they are afraid to open their mouth to talk. Communication is also one of the most significant parts for universities to pay attention. There are two types of programs showed in Fox, ESL and EAP. According to Fox, the ESL are typically related to improve communicative capability and tend to social interaction, while the EAP concentrates more on helping Non-English speakers adapt to the academic systems. Furthermore, taking the English education in English countries force Non-English speakers to open their mouth and participate in class, which unconsciously helps them to practice Student 3 communication skills. A lot of Non-English speakers are afraid of speaking because of the inferiority of their pronunciation. People from the group of tutoring will teach students how to make the sounds and give them the advice to improve their pronunciation, for example, using the tape recorder to record words and practice everything they said (Cruickshank, Newell and Cole 243). Therefore, the genuine pronounce for English- speaking instructors and friends have an excellent influence on Non-English speakers generally. Last but not least, taking the English education in English speaking countries can help Non-English adapt culture during learning English. According to the article written by Yang and Chen, Non-English speakers education became a cultural continuity in international higher education for second English speakers. The English language programs are put in a specified cultural environment. The culture collision breeds an emergent significant feature of the culture (Yang & Chen 197). The original culture of Non-English speakers will not be denied, it will become the transportation between English culture and the original culture. From an academic example, there are more English class focused on the preference for discourse pattern of Chinese ESL students, and comparing it with the western preference to help Chinese student understand the different writing way between China and America (Chen). As we all known, there is a huge differences between the instructors in two countries, such as China and America. The teachers in China are good at teaching of the knowledge from the books, however, the teachers in America are in favor of using interesting examples to help students understand the knowledge and leading students to do the critical thinking (Edna, Rawlings). Critical thinking is always difficult for Non-English speakers. There are two reasons for that; the initial stage is because they have to think in a new language when they asked to do the critical thinking. The other one is the issue of cultural. The thinking ways are different in every country; in order to adapt the American Student 4 academic education they should change their thinking way to adapt the American academic education. Moreover, Studying and living in English speaking counties create an atmosphere of learning English. Non-English speakers practice English by talking with classmates, professors, and strangers. They use English everywhere. These being the case, English education promote the English learning in socially. Despite the benefits of learning English in an English-speaking country, some students argue that learning English in their own country is just as valuable. Thus, students still prefer choose to learn the English in their own country and pass the language test, like Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) and International English Language Testing System (IELTS), before study in the English speaking countries. In fact, taking the English education in English speaking countries spends more money than taking the English courses before studying abroad. They always should take more than 6 months to finish the language courses in the universities, which waste a lot of time for Non-English speakers. For example, there are two different English courses; one is the language class and the pathway. Pathway will at least take you 3 months to finish it, and language class will spend you more time doing that. Furthermore, for some lower level students, they cannot catch the class, and they think it is just a waste of time. They do not like talking because of the inferiority complex of English; even they thought the others in class are just showing off (Cruickshank, Newell and Cole 244). What is worst, they cannot use first- language to help them understand the class content in English speaking required education course. In the course of time, they will lose their confidence; even feel disgusted for learning English. Moreover, numerous first-rate universities ask the applicants to submit their TOEFL grade as indicator of their English language proficiency, TOEFL Test is used as an entrance test to be accepted as new students in graduate program as well (Mahmud 2582). People can adapt Student 5 themselves to academic studying more quickly after have an English systematic training education in their own country. In order to get a higher grade in TOEFL and IELTS, most Non- English students will start learning TOEFL and IELTS when they were high school students, which occupies a lot of studying time for their normal class. All in all, English education supported by universities in English speaking countries has benefits to help Non-English speakers adapt in academically and socially. They should relearn a lot of things in English speaking countries. For example, numerous students experienced difficulty in communicating in English, although their TOEFL scores were good, as the English spoken in America was very different from the English they learned in China (Edna, and Rawlings 32). Therefore, universities in English speaking countries should carry out an investigation to analyze Non-English opinions of the English education. Then catering to their suggestions and organize more various interesting English education systems for them, like give Non-English speakers the opportunities to become exchange students and take the English education class in the universities before Non-English speakers study aboard. Student 6 Works cited Cruickshank, Ken, Sandra Newell, and Stephanie Cole. Meeting English Language Needs In Teacher Education: A Flexible Support Model For Non-English Speaking Background  Asia-Pacific Journal Of Teacher Education 31.3 (2003): 239-247. Education Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Chen, Jianping. An Investigation into the Preference for Discourse Patterns in the Chinese EFL Learning  International Journal of Applied Linguistics 18.2 (2008): 188-211. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Fox Rodriguez, Janna, Liying Cheng, and Bruno D. Zumbo. Do They Make A Difference? The Impact Of English Language Programs On Second Language Students In Canadian  TESOL Quarterly 1 (2014): 57. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Yang, Wenhui, and Linhan Chen. Cultural Continuity In EFL Teaching In International Higher Education: From A Discourse Perspective Of Chinese  English Language Teaching 8.2 (2015): 196-205. ERIC. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Mahmud, Murni. The EFL Problems in Answering the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL): A Study in Indonesian  Theory & Practice in Language Student 7 Studies 4.12 (2014): 2581-2584. Education Source. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Edna Sue, and Melody Rawlings. Preparedness of Chinese Students for American Culture and Communicating in  Journal of International Students 3.1 (2013): 29-40. Education Source. Web. 16 Apr. 2017