Student 1 Student Kimberly Wiggs ENC 1101 13 April 2017 Gender Wage Gap Discrimination of different ethnicities and gender has been prevalent throughout history. Discrimination based on religion, skin color, or gender has been apparent not just in the American work force, but all over the world. The discrimination of women in the workplace is extremely important because modern times promote equality all over the board, but the gender wage gap is still apparent. Ariane Hegewisch states that women earn 20.4 percent less in terms of wages compared to men. This statistic is stunning due to the fact that even if we live in a supposedly equal world, the pay is not equal for women that can perform equally as men can. Women are considered equal but do not get the equal pay they deserve. To reduce this wage gap that is prevalent in modern day society, women should be given more opportunities get hired into prominent positions. More women in prominent positions lead to more women getting hired as part of the work-force, leading to a more equal work environment. Although many would argue that women should not be given said positions, it must be considered that women are equally as capable as men and without this change, the gender wage gap will be present indefinitely. There has always been a higher number of men in important positions in companies. That is starting to change. statistics show, an increasing number of women are taking prominent roles in companies. The gender wage gap is so high due to the fact that there are more men in CEO and prominent position in companies than women. This leads to a term described by Student 2 Cohen as a preference. This means that there is a preference of gender in the hiring process. Men who are in the hiring process are more inclined to hire men while women are more inclined to hire more women. When there is an equal number of women and men in the work force, then this will lead to a more uniform pay in the genders. Women have more opportunities that was previously unobtainable in the past. Blau states that upgrading of women and deunionization explain a portion of the slower 1990s convergence since the positive effect of these factors on relative wage gains was larger in the (Blau). This means that as more women were hired in upgraded positions, the more signs of convergence was shown and relates to statistics and analysis. This trend is noticeable as an increasing number of women are introduced in the science, technology, engineering and medical (S.T.E.M) field, more than as seen in the past. Hegewisch states that the pace of change in the annual earnings ratio continues at the same rate as it has since 1960, it will take another 45 years, until 2059, for men and women to reach (Hegewisch 2). A considerable change must happen now for this gap to reach convergence. Women face heavy systematic discrimination, impeding their chances to receive equal treatment compared to men. Modern day society is a patriarchal one, where men are considered to be the one that needs to bring all the money to the table while the women cooks, cleans and takes care of offspring. In reality, this is not the case anymore as an increasing number of women take on prominent positions in companies. Gender stereotypes has been impeding women from reaching their goals. These gender stereotypes originate from gender roles that, as previously mentioned, handicapped women who wanted to reach higher positions in their company Molly states that rules that had been established determined a role in society and limited their participation in it as well. They vote, but were forced to pay taxes on issues Student 3 in which they had no (Bryant 2). As a result, many men still live in the patriarchal society notion where women are not as capable as men. As Bryant puts it, some males do not trust capabilities and require that they are helped by a male aid. Also, Claudia Olivetti states that attitudes toward greed, ambition, and altruism, as important determinants of employment decisions as well as of gender wage (Olivetti 652). This means that men think that women are built differently, which is obviously not the case. Women are as capable as men are, just that men have more priviledge in the hiring process. The application process for said prominent positions, when outsourced, should be anonymous. If an application is anonymous with just the resume included, the accomplishments and commendations will be displayed and gender bias will not be an issue in the hiring process. As Rinne puts it, implemented effectively, anonymous job applications level the playing field in access to jobs by shifting the focus toward skills and (Rinne 1). This will lead to a more equal work environment due to the fact that anonymous job applications will lead to more women getting hired because the gender discrimination will be virtually eliminated because it will be based on skills and qualifications. If implemented, this will be a major step into gender wage difference convergence because more women will get hired in the workplace. Some argue that women should not be given these promotions and extra opportunities because they feel that women do not face discrimination. The fact that there is not an equal amount of women and men in prominent positions of important companies. The alternative hiring process may give women some opportunities to not get discriminated against. The alternative hiring process may only postpone the discrimination until later on in the hiring Student 4 process, but it will unarguably provide more opportunities for women in order to create a more level workforce. Even if said women get hired into the positions and face discrimination, their statistics and prowess in the job that they were assigned to do will show that they are indeed capable to perform the job at hand at the highest of abilities. As Cohen states, the The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009 helps women due to the fact that statute of limitations for presenting an equal-pay lawsuit begins on the date that the employer makes the initial discriminatory wage decision, not at the date of the most recent (Cohen 2). Meaning that women have more opportunities to sue on gender discrimination if they are performing as equals to their male counterparts. There are no consequences of using anonymous hiring and should be implemented to at least give some sort of advantage to women. In conclusion, more women should be given more opportunities to get hired in prominent positions in companies. As previously stated, anonymous hiring would provide women with less of a gender discrimination bias when applying. Also, as more women are being hired in said positions, more women will be hired as a result of homophily preference. This topic is crucial due to the fact that equality should be present in all fronts. We are living in an age of supposed equality, and all statistics should reflect that, inclusively with the gender wage difference. The anonymous hiring process would not only benefit women, but also minorities who are equally as capable. As time passes and as more women are given prominent positions, there will be less of a gender wage gap. We are a human collective and gender should not be a handicap to achieve your dreams. (Word Count: 1197) Student 5 Works Cited Blau, Francine, and Lawrence Kahn. The US Gender Pay Gap in the 1990s: Slowing  National Bureau of Economic Research (2004): n. pag. NBER. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Bryant, Molly, Paige Winters, and Jojo Matson. Gender Pay  Uhuru 10th ser. 10.3 (2012): n. pag. Iowa State University. Iowa State University, 24 Jan. 2012. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Cohen, Philip N., and Matt L. Huffman. Working for the Woman? Female Managers and the Gender Wage  American Sociological Review 72.5 (2007): 681-704. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Hegewisch, Ariane, and Asha DuMonthier. IWPR  The Gender Wage Gap: 2015; Annual Earnings Differences by Gender, Race, and Ethnicity IWPR. IWPR, 1 Sept. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.iwpr.org/publications/pubs/the-gender-wage-gap- 2015-annual-earnings-differences-by-gender-race-and-ethnicity>. Olivetti, Claudia, and Barbara Petrongolo. Unequal Pay or Unequal Employment? A Cross Country Analysis of Gender  Journal of Labor Economics 26.4 (2008): 621-54. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Rinne, Ulf. Anonymous Job Applications and Hiring  IZA World of Labor(2015): n. pag. Web.