Stephenson 1 Kaylie Stephenson Erika Staiger ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Ending Animal Captivity. Animal captivity has been around since the very first public zoo was established in Egypt by Queen Hatshepsut in the 15 th century BC (Mason, 333). Ever since then, zoos have popped up all over the world. Most people think about zoos as a way to view and learn about exotic animals without having to travel the world. However, behind the bars and cages lay animals who have been torn away from their home and family. These animals give up their normal lives for human entertainment. As a result of the harsh realities of zoo life, some captive animals have developed psychological disorders that severely alter their normal behavior. For example, captive animals have been known to develop Zoochosis as a result of being confined to a small dreary cage 24,7. Fortunately, all that USF students have to do is stop visiting zoos and instead visit animal sanctuaries. A great, local example is very own, Big Cat Rescue. The first reason why zoos are unethical is that they cannot provide the social groups that the wild provides. For example, in the animal world, group size is very important when it comes to social relationships, net food intake, and reproductive success. According to Elizabeth Price and Tara Stoinski, authors of a book on animal behavior, captive animals face different issues compared to wild animals (255). In captivity, food availability and survival is not an issue, however they still have to compete to find a mate. Since they are expected to get along with all the animals they live with, they are unable to successfully decrease social tension. Depending on the species, suboptimal sizes can be associated with increased abnormal behaviors and Stephenson 2 decreased reproductive success and infant survival in a range of captive  (Price and Stoinski, 256). Therefore, group size effects their behavior, overall wellbeing, and reproductive chances. The second reason why zoos are unethical is because they cause psychological damage to their animals. Zoochosis is a psychological condition seen in zoo animals. Symptoms include; repetitive pacing, swaying, biting, and self-harm. A case study performed by Konjevic Bata and Sindicic Njemirovski looks at a formerly captive tiger skull. The researchers found that the tiger had excessive damage on his canine and incisor teeth. Eventually they concluded that the wear and tear was a result of excessive biting and chewing caused by zoochosis (Bata and Njemirovski, 58). In a 2001 study of 257 captive giraffe and okapi in 49 US zoos, it was found that 80% of them exhibited abnormal behaviors. These included bar biting, neck twisting, head bobbing pacing and  ( Bata and Njemirovski, 60). Overall, these examples of zoochosis prove that zoos have a negative effect on the animals overall mental health. In addition, USF students should care about this issue because no animal deserves to be locked up and held hostage, just like no human deserves to. There would be no way that human zoos would be allowed, so why do we think it is okay for our animals? There is a very simple way to help these animals in need. All you have to do is simply not visit zoos. By not visiting zoos, it keeps the zoos from making money, which will ultimately lead to their closure. If you really want to see wild animals without traveling the world, you can visit an animal sanctuary. For example, as a USF student you could visit very own Big Cat Rescue. They have been rescuing big cats since November 4 th 1992. They are one of the largest accredited sanctuaries in the world and are home to over 80 different large cats. What makes them stand out is that they are working to end the abuse at its root by ending the private possession and trade of Stephenson 3 exotic cats through legislation and  (Big Cat Rescue). Sanctuaries like this take in animals that come from zoos or who are injured and cannot survive in the wild. They usually offer a lot more space and more environments that more closely resemble the animals natural habitat. Sue Donaldson and Will Kymlicka, authors of Politics and Animals, say that sanctuaries allow animals to live the rest of their days in safety and to also serve as ambassadors to the public (1). Linda Brent, a contributing author to the Journal of Applied Animal Welfare Science, claims that sanctuaries can help improve the well-being of animals who have formerly been held captive ( Brent, 55). Therefore, you can visit an animal sanctuary and get to see amazing animals while also learning about them. In the end, there is a way that everyone can work together to stop animal captivity. If everyone comes together, humans can provide the voice that these animals need. By simply not visiting zoos, this could put an end to captivity. This will also put an end to false and inadequate environments and social tensions, as well as unnecessary metal health issues. The present and future generations of animals will be able to live a life of freedom, unafraid of being torn from their families and doomed to a life behind bars. Stephenson 4 Works Cited Brent, Linda. Life-long well being: applying animal welfare science to nonhuman primates in  Journal of Applied Animal Welfare Science 10.1 (2007): 55-61. Donaldson, Sue, and Will Kymlicka. Farmed animal sanctuaries: The heart of the  Politics and Animals 1.1 (2015): 50-74. Dean, et al. Zoochosis as a cause of excessive dental wear in captive Siberian tiger-a case  Veterinarska Stanica 46.1 (2015): 59-63. Mason, Peter. Zoo tourism: The need for more  Journal of Sustainable Tourism 8.4 (2000): 333-339. Price, Elizabeth E., and Tara S. Stoinski. Group size: Determinants in the wild and implications for the captive housing of wild mammals in  Applied Animal Behaviour Science 103.3 (2007): 255-264. https://bigcatrescue.org/