Jacobson 1 Taylor Jacobson Maria Theodosiou ENC1102-003 30 April 2017 Project 3: Disturbance of Ecological Psychology- A Disconnect Between Humans and Natural Environments Involving the natural environment in our lives is essential to our well-being because it is where we come from, like all other living organisms (Velarde 199). We are a part of a growing technological, industrial, and modern world that brings us humans further away from this natural environment. Because of this separation, we are not only endangering the environment and the animals living in it, but we are creating more problems for ourselves. This is a huge problem for our society because the number of mental disorders and socialization problems have risen with more time spent indoors, in city environments, and enamored with technology. With the more time spent away from the natural environment, the more we ignore and disregard the importance of it (Velarde 200). Because of the negative psychological and social effects associated with being disconnected with nature, all humans need to contribute to caring about and connecting with the environment and take the needed steps to create a healthy relationship with our environment and other people. By going to a conference held at USF, reading a book to get educated, or exploring nature at preserves or parks are some of the many steps we can take to reconnect and repair this relationship. Ecological psychology is the study of the mental and emotional relationship between humans and their surroundings (Bonnes 1). Specifically, this issue revolves around the natural environmental and social aspect of ecological psychology. One big problem is the growing Jacobson 2 industrial and technological world, which disrupts the natural balance of the emotional and social connections in their brain. These growing aspects of the modern life cause stress, emotional and mental problems, and disconnects humans from their natural and social environment. First World humans are captivated by their technology and are more comfortable being indoors than outdoors. According to the Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences Journal, around 90% of our time is spent indoors, in our entire lifetime (Bratman 120). Because of this excess amount of time spent away from nature, humans are acclimated to having a comfortable temperature in their homes and workplaces, and know where their food, water, and other supplies are coming from. Humans are in very little pain or discomfort in their pampered lives, and staying in nature for extended periods of time can disrupt this feeling of ease. Although we feel less comfortable in the natural environment because of our busy lives, we are actually more happy and more social when we are in nature (Nisbet 4). Every day, we feel more connected and involved with the world and with each other through social media, but it is only making us less social (Morris). Technology changes our behavior and can have an impact on social relationships, creating a barrier between the two people talking online, masking emotions, and dissolving a possible connection needed for a solid interpersonal relationship (Morris). Intimate and personal relationships are stronger with physical contact, which is why it can be so hard to keep in touch with friends over the internet and have long distance relationships (Kraut 1021). Because of the illusion of being social through social media and the business of the industrial world filling up our time, we do not feel the need have a special connection with nature, which in turn ruins our ability to socialize correctly face to face (Kraut 1021). With this growing separation, humans are more uninformed than they should about caring for and enjoying nature. it comes to urban planning, protecting wildlife is often but if you Jacobson 3 care for natural areas, we can plan for a successful future while still being energy efficient and respectful of the environment (Science Alert). If we had a stronger connection with the ecology of the environment, we can still enjoy and put our time into modern aspects of our lives, but with a different perspective, caring about and keeping in mind, what is best for the environment before what is best for business. In general, college students are very stressed, fatigued and emotionally unstable, most of the time. Re-engaging with nature and disconnecting from the internet for a little time each day could make a huge difference in any life, but especially a college student. Being outside just a little more each day increases a happiness and generosity (Nisbet 5). Having is being in touch with nature and understanding how to make the world more sustainable, and because of this nature relatedness or connection with nature, humans become more happy (Nisbet 10). Being a little stressed from college could be a little more bearable if the college student were in a better mood. Not only does being in nature improve well-being of individuals, but it surprisingly improves social connections with other animals and humans (Nisbet 8). In addition, having face to face conversations and spending time with people in person can help develop and strengthen a social connection, even if not in a natural environment (Nisbet 8). Interacting with people can make sure emotions and words do not get interpreted incorrectly and help us to study facial expressions on people. Younger generations and even partially our generation cannot decipher emotions or facial expressions as well because they talk to each other more over the internet, with just words or emojis, which limit the amount of facial expressions and emotions. Some expressions are characteristic to certain people and help us build a relationship with them as we discover how they express emotions through facial and body language (Nisbet 9). Improving on Jacobson 4 social relationships can increase well-being and mental stability, which is what a lot of college students long for. It is not too late to create a relationship with our surroundings again and become aware of the increasing environmental problems. To become educated on the environmental issues and what you can do to help, there is an event at USF on May 7 th , 2017 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. for all students and faculty who are interested in the natural environment. This event is called Collegiate Ecological Psychology Conference, which educates people on the increasing environmental problems, informs on the growing disconnect between humans and nature and the social and emotional problems associated, and gives people the chance to sign up for an activity at the end of the conference, like going on a nature walk with a guide, planting a garden, and picking up trash around campus. This event gives many opportunities to not only get educated, but get involved and get a head start on renewing a relationship with the natural environment. If going to this conference is not an option, most of the same information is relayed in the book, The Psychology of Environmental Problems, which can be found as a very inexpensive e- book on Google. Anyone can do it and there are multiple ways to become reconnected with nature. Some simple things to start to make a positive impact on the environment would be things like making an effort to recycle all items that have the recycle symbol on the package or item, conserving energy by turning off and unplugging electrical items you are not using, and walking and biking more than driving. You may be spending a bit more time and money, but caring about the environment now will not only make you happier but make your children and their children happier when they are growing up. Making the decision to care and connect with the environment today can influence the way future generations live their lives and how the environment changes for the better or worsens. Jacobson 5 The next step is to actually step into nature, whether it is for an hour, a day, or a weekend. Nature walks, hiking, camping, and gardening are all simple ways to find a happiness with ecology. Applying to be a camp counselor or going to a camp (an outdoor camp) is one way to reconnect, but also finding state and national parks in your local area (https://www.nps.gov/findapark/index.htm) to explore is another way. These parks have beautiful places to explore, hike, swim, and even camp. Find the closest one to you and invite family and friends to come along to reconnect with you. It does not have to be a state park either; it could be a dog park with trees and a pond, it could be a field of grass with a couple trees in your backyard, or it could be a bike path through some woods in your neighborhood. Reconnecting with nature does not have to be a daunting and difficult task for people to complete. With a little time and effort, we can care for and enjoy nature to be happier, while still balancing a job and enjoying technology every once in a while. Humans have grown too comfortable with the indoors and technology, because it has caused a disconnect and an obliviousness with the nature environment, and in turn has fizzled social connections. Poor mental health and an empty social life from our modern life can be fixed or improved by exploring the natural world around us by just simply getting educated on environmental issues, and finding a local area to discover and admire. We are content with our modern lives, and it is much easier just to conform to that life by being inefficient and wasteful. It is also much simpler to sit inside on your phone than it is to walk outside or bike somewhere to go admire nature. But with the small effort, you get rewarded and future generations can be positively influenced by that as well. WC: 1600 Jacobson 6 Works Cited Bonnes, M., Nenci, A.M. Psychological Perspective and the Ecological Ecological Psychology, Vol. 3, 1, 2004, pp. 1-7. Bratman, Gregory N., Daily, Gretchen C., Hamilton, Paul J. Impacts of Nature Experience on Human Cognitive Function and Mental Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, Vol. 1249, 1, 2012, pp. 118-136. Kraut, Robert, Lundmark, Vicki. Paradox: A Social Technology That Reduces Social Involvement and Psychological American Psychologist, Vol. 53, 9, 1998, pp. Morris, Chris. Technology Killing the Human CNBC, 15 August 2015, http://www.cnbc.com/2015/08/15/gy-killing-the-human-touch.html. Accessed 30 March 2017. Tool Helps Plan Greener Science Alert, 29 April 2013, http://www.sciencealert.com/new-tool-helps-plan-greener-cities. Accessed 25 March 2017. Nisbet, Elizabeth K., Zelenski, John M. and Feeling Connected: The Distinct Role of Nature SAGE Journals, Vol. 46, 1, 2014, pp. 3-23. Velarde, M.D. Effects of Viewing Landscapes Landscape Types in Environmental Urban Forestry & Urban Greening, Vol. 6, 4, 2007, pp. 199-212. Jacobson 7