MacMillan 1 Kelcie MacMillan ENC 1102 H. Campbell 2/15/2017 Vaccination Debate: Vaccine Free and the Center for Disease Control For many years, vaccinations have been the forerunner of numerous arguments in the medical world. Vaccines were first administered successfully in 1796, when Edward Jenner created a vaccination against smallpox. This particular vaccination was used for at least 200 years thereafter, with slight modifications over time in order to achieve the best results Hospital of Philadelphia). In recent years, the divide between Americans supporting or opposing vaccinations has grown larger. Due to adverse reactions to vaccinations, many citizens have become unsure as to if vaccinations are truly helpful, or inherently harmful. The Center for Disease Control (CDC) recommends nine different kinds of vaccinations to be administered to children ages 0-6. Although the CDC recognizes that there are some adverse reactions to vaccinations, they still see them as a necessity. Vaccine Free (VF) is an organization with the intent to share the knowledge of how harmful vaccines can be. Their primary goal is to educate the public about natural immunity and that vaccines are not essential. These two groups, while in disagreement about the necessity of vaccines, are bonded by their desire to help children and spread awareness and education to the public. These two groups could join together by creating and co-funding a joint organization with the goal to create non-toxin containing vaccine alternatives that could be safely administered to children. MacMillan 2 Vaccine Free (VF) is a Massachusetts-based non-profit organization that was founded in order to educate the public on the harmful nature of vaccinations. Some of their objectives are stated as follows: create a vaccine-free world where infants and children are nurtured by breast- milk, clean water, plentiful nutritious food, and lots of love. To dispel the myth that vaccines are safe and To educate policymakers, health-care professionals, the legal profession, governors, Massachusetts legislators, the United Nations leadership, the US Congress, the President, and parents the world over, that all vaccines have never been safe or effective in preventing childhood (Vaccine Free) Those in opposition to federally mandated vaccinations take this viewpoint for a number of reasons; they argue that vaccinations are painful, they contain harmful ingredients, they can cause disorders and death, and the government has no right to tell others what to administer to their children. In the past, organizations like the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program (VICP) were established to ensure an adequate supply of vaccines, stabilize vaccine costs, and establish and maintain an accessible and efficient forum for individuals found to be injured by certain  (US Department of Health and Human Services). Since its creation in 1986, this organization has paid around $3 billion dollars in order to cover costs of medical compensation and lawsuits. It is viewed by stakeholders against vaccination, such as VF, that organizations like the VICP should not be necessary since vaccines supposedly pose no health risk to children. Vaccine Free continues to work every day to inform others and protect children across the country from the risks that vaccines pose. The Center for Disease Control (CDC) is a government-run organization that as the national focus for developing and applying disease prevention and control, environmental health, and health promotion and health education activities designed to improve the health of the people of the United (Center for Disease Control). The CDC recommends 29 doses of 9 MacMillan 3 vaccines for children by age 6, a seemingly high number, but it is estimated that American children were saved from death and 322 million cases of childhood illnesses were prevented between 1994 and 2014 due to (Gholipour). The CDC argues that while some vaccinations do contain harmful ingredients such as formaldehyde, aluminum, and thimerosal, the amounts in which they are used are not harmful, especially in comparison to what children are exposed to every day (King-Heyworth). It should be taken into consideration that while vaccines have posed risks in the past due to adverse allergic reactions, these reactions were not always linked to the harmful ingredients in vaccines, nor were they predictable. Every day, children have allergic reactions to different substances that they have never before encountered which is to no fault of anyone simply because allergic reactions cannot be predicted. Before any vaccine is marketed or distributed, they are first tested for ten years or more in order to insure the smallest risk possible when administered. Although during this testing there is no way to determine if children will have negative reactions to vaccines, it is made certain that there are no amounts of lethal dosages that could harm or kill any patient it is administered to. These two organizations seemingly at odds with one another still have many things in common. Both VF and the CDC strive to share accurate information and educate the public. Both organizations wish to administer the best care possible to children and adults, and do extensive research to prevent misinformation or adverse reactions to vaccinations. In order for these two stakeholders to come together, VF will have to recognize the helpful properties that vaccinations do have. The evidence of success is irrefutable with strong statistics to support vaccines making a difference across the world. The CDC will have to find a way to give up deadly components in vaccines in order to still create a safer, more natural alternative that is easy to administer. These MacMillan 4 two organizations have never before worked together, but they realistically share a common ground in their core beliefs: to help the public fight preventable illness. To create a feasible compromise, an option for these organizations would be to combine forces, creating a new organization with the goal of finding vaccination alternatives. These vaccination alternatives could be focused on being all-natural and/or non-toxic substances that could be injected or after time, administered orally. This organization could be a sub-sector of the CDC and co-funded by the government as well as VF, or it could be a completely separate body entirely, independent from the government but still co-funded by the CDC and VF. Either way, both organizations would have to be willing to contribute time, money, and resources to find alternative solutions to the traditional vaccine. This organization should also be tasked with finding ways to create a test for children prior to administering a vaccination that would determine if a child would have an adverse reaction of any kind in order to prevent loss of life or harm to patients. The only drawback these two organizations would face is a loss in funds for their own personal budgets, but realizing the possible outcome of finding safer vaccinations and an increase of international vaccine knowledge could very easily change the world. In conclusion, Vaccine Free and the Center for Disease Control are two organizations with different goals that are bonded by core values focusing on education and public health. If they were to successfully join together and create a compromise, the world of vaccinations could be entirely changed. Creating a separate organization focused on researching and formulating non- toxic vaccinations could lead to easier reproduction, less adverse reaction and risk, and farther distribution to other countries that are less fortunate and do not have access to vaccines. MacMillan 5 Works Cited Center for Disease Control, for Disease Control and Prevention [Mission https://www.cdc.gov/maso/pdf/cdcmiss.pdf. Accessed January 30, 2017. Hospital of Philadelphia, All Timelines  www.chop.edu. Accessed January 30, 2017. Gholipour, Bahar. Vaccination Has Saved 732,000 Lives Since 1994, Says  http://www.livescience.com/45111-national-vaccination-effects.html. Accessed January 30, 2017. King-Heyworth, Kelley. Vaccines: The Reality behind the  http://www.parents.com/health/vaccines/controversy/vaccines-the-reality-behind-the- debate/. Accessed January 30, 2017 US Department of Health and Human Services, National Vaccine Injury Compensation www.hrsa.gov/vaccinecompensation/index.html. Accessed January 30, 2017.