Maynard 1 Matthias Maynard MS. Smith ENC1101 April 30, 2017 Student Athletes on the NCAA Payroll The NCAA values itself on being an organization for the student athlete well-being, but there have been some concerns regarding their core values. These concerns are a result of the primary source of revenue being through its student athletes. These revenues stem from various sources such as: TV contracts, jersey sales, brand name contracts, video games, posters and other types of memorabilia. The student athletes do not receive compensation from any of these sources. If the NCAA really wants to be an organization for the student athlete, keep their integrity, and avoid lawsuits, the system that they are currently implementing needs to be revised and restructured. The new system would have to place the importance of the student athlete above money, and to find a better way of compensating student athletes. Since the NCAA was founded in 1906, people believed that it was a great organization that helped the student athlete with going through the challenging journey of being an athlete while being a full time college student, as writer Lazaroff describes, view the NCAA as a protector of all that is pure and decent in the world of (Lazaroff 329). Lazaroff describes the NCAA as protector because it oversees and regulates student athletes from over 1000 institutions, and it was viewed to facilitate and safeguard athletes through the process of playing sports and going to school. However, how they really operate has come to light as college sports gained popularity. People started to take notice how 18 year old kids were on national TV in front of thousands of people, and these kids jerseys were in major retail stores, and noticed how Maynard 2 the majority of these student athletes were barely getting by and how the NCAA was, and still is, exploiting them. An issue that demonstrates why the NCAA should compensate student athletes is how a college schedule is mostly focused around athletics instead of academics. The amount of hours that a college athlete spends on sports related activities resemble the amount of hours that a full time employee works during the week. As a recent study by GOALS organization (Growth Opportunities Aspirations and Learning of Students) found, that I baseball and football players report that they missed more classes during the season last year than their peers did five years showing that the amount of time that is dedicated to sports is causing college athletes to miss class due to the amount of physical activity that is imposed on them and is wearing them down both physically and mentally. That same study conducted by GOALS also found that in Division I sports, on average, spent two more hours per week on athletics relative to academics than they did in This finding demonstrates how the NCAA is focusing more on the athlete component of student athlete, and that it is not doing much to improve academics for college athletes. The study also discovered that football players, for example, spent 41.6 hours per week on athletics and 38.2 hours per week on academics last this goes to show that a college athletes schedule is identical to a schedule of a full time employee. This is very hypocritical by the NCAA, because according to the NCAA Division I Bylaw 2.14, students competing in athletics are limited in the number of hours they can participate in athletic activities. This Bylaw 2.14 was set to ensure that student-athletes are afforded quality time for academic pursuits similar to the general student 22) This Bylaw more specifically states that the hours that a student athlete is supposed to spend on Maynard 3 athletic related activities is 20 hours a week, which is not happening, and displays the NCAA as an organization that does not value the student athlete as a college student. The NCAA has been averaging revenues of 900 million dollars per year for the past 4 years, a lot of it coming from television rights. The rights are to NCAA tournaments, like March madness, college football playoffs, the rose bowl, orange bowl, or regular season games. In order for the NCAA to make money these games and tournaments must drive the respective television network ratings up, which causes TV networks to pick the best team to broadcast. This causes immense amount of pressure on individual institution to recruit the best athletes and to make sure that they are training their athletes hard to be the best, which ties back around to how the NCAA and institutions are ignoring the fact that these athletes are also students. According to an Elon Law Review article, written by Mike Ingersoll, also analyzed that student athletes are worth way more than the scholarship and benefits they receive, as he states that the case of Duke Basketball, the valuation of each player to the university exceeded $1,000,000, but the scholarship still fell nearly $2,000 short of attending (Ingersoll 616). The disparities with how much a student athlete is generating for the NCAA and the value that the NCAA places on a college athlete, is another reason why student athletes should be compensated to a greater extent than just scholarships. Other people believe a different way to compensate college athletes is that they get compensated by their scholarships, and facilities just for athletes, and that they get more benefits than regular students. As board of director for the NCAA Mitchell Horace states are students receiving access to a college education through their participation in sports, for which they earn scholarships to pay tuition, fees, room and board, and other allowable (Horace 1). This arguments is proven wrong by several factors. A study conducted by the Maynard 4 National College Players Association identified that typical full athletic scholarship falls, on average, $3,222 short per player, per year for the true cost of attending the This study demonstrates that there is no true benefit on being on an athletic scholarship instead of being on an academic scholarship or other types of scholarships. Facilities are also contradictory to being a form of compensation due to the fact that institutions want the best new, shiny facilities to suede top high school recruits into playing for their athletic programs, as a Tennessee law review written by William Berry states that pressure to recruit has led to a facilities among 815). Berry describes how Universities are in competition with each other to have the best facilities to get those top recruits, and they want those top players to get more TV exposure for their respective institution, to get more people to want to attend that specific school, which all translates too more tuition being paid which is more money for the school. This further proves how the NCAA and universities put little value on student athletes and exploit them for business purposes. The discrepancies with the way the NCAA has been operating has made many argue in favor of a different type of student athlete compensation, as the model in practice is potentially compromising the academic success of a student athlete. New proposal for compensating student athletes have been discussed. However, if the NCAA wants to value the education and academics of a college athlete and be an organization for the college athlete first, they must review, analyze, and restructure their way of operating. They must operate to ensure academic success for a student athlete, and to give student athletes what they deserve. Maynard 5 Work Cited LAZAROFF, DANIEL E. The NCAA in Its Second Century: Defender of Amateurism or Antitrust  Oregon Law Review, vol. 86, 01 Jan. 2007, p. 329. EBSCO. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. III, William W. Berry. Educating Athletes Re-Envisioning The Student-Athlete  Tennessee Law Review 81.(2014): 795. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Ayers, Kevin, et al. The 20-hour rule: student-athletes time commitment to athletics and  VAHPERD Journal, vol. 33, no. 1, 2012, p. 22+. Academic OneFile. Web. 8 Apr. 2017. Ingersoll, Mike. Amateurism And The Modern College  Elon Law Review 7.2 (2015): 607-635. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Moltz, David. How Athletes Spend Their  Inside Higher Ed. 14 Feb. 2011. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Moyer, Alex. Throwing out the Playbook: Replacing the Anticompetitive Amateurism Regime with the Olympic  George Washington Law Review, vol. 83, no. 2, May 2015, p. 761. EBSCO Web. 4 Mar. 2017