Pike 1 Danyelle Pike Mariama Chagamire ENC 1102 April 19, 2017 Tell Me More The United States is a nation that thrives off Genetically Modified Organisms and thus has received backlash due to the lack of transparency in regards to the technology. Studies have proven that Genetically Modified Organisms have severe impacts on consumer health and many aspects of the environment that comes in contact with it, such as soil and insects. With the studies done, there is concrete evidence that proves the harmful repercussions that are associated with the use and continued use of GM technology. The FDA issued a policy statement in 1992 that limited what it considered to only changes in food that could be noted by taste, smell or other senses (Center for Food Safety). With the FDA backing companies such as Monsanto, who essentially has a monopoly on the Genetically Modified seed industry the issue of effective labelling has not appeared to be a major priority for the organization. The issue of profit over good will comes into play, the seed industry fuels the agricultural market in the United States and Monsanto, who mass produces seeds, contributing to profits, passing The Labelling Act, that may affect them may be forgone. The United States Food and Drug Administration is the government body that has control over food safety regulations, their mission statement is based around ensuring consumer safety and public health, that is their overarching goal as an administration (U.S. Food and Drug Administration). However, when it comes on to the Labelling Policy that was passed in 1992, the FDA has remained tight lipped and has not revised it. The Labelling Policy states that only Pike 2 materials that can be detected through the senses, that is, eyes, nose, mouth, would be considered as substantially different, and only then would comprehensive labelling be required by the company (U.S. Food and Drug Administration). Thus, because GMOs cannot be detected by the naked or untrained eye, GMO corporations are not required to disclose any information. The policy is too vague for it to still be enforced by law, the policy states that it does not define the word they claimed in a statement released to the public that, the agency has interpreted the term, within the context of food, to mean information about the attributes of the food (U.S. Food and Drug Administration). The administration has addressed the issue and released statements stating that GMO foods and Non- GMO foods have many similarities, such as, nutrient factors, tastes, smells and sizes which is why they are considered as substantially similar. However, this is not the case, as multiple studies have shown GMO foods have many properties that are biologically, physically and genetically different that result in negative effects on the environment and the body that Non- GMO foods do not possess. Genetically Modified Foods are those whose chemical and biological structures have been altered to achieve desired results, such as increase in physical appearance, taste, increase harvest, increased growth rate, anti-biotic resistance and pesticide repellence (Center for Food Safety). With all these modifications and chemicals added to achieve the one can assume that there must be some repercussions, and there definitely are. GM Seeds which produce these GM foods have long-term impacts on the environment, human bodies and any organism that comes in contact with it. When GM Seeds are used, the soil that it is planted in will be affected by the chemicals and with rain and irrigation, the chemicals will disperse much farther than the harvest plot, thus affecting organisms and foods not associated with GM production. With the soil being tainted it has completely destroyed some species of plants and thus heritage Pike 3 seeds banks, such as Seed Savers Exchange, have had to be developed to preserve these species. This has resulted in the need for Heirloom/ Heritage seed banks, these seeds have the characteristics of the parent plant which are the key to the survival of the crop (Seed Savers Exchange). The existence of these seed banks is proof that GMOs have adverse effects on plant survival, this fact alone should be enough premise for them to review their policy. Furthermore, there are individuals who have developed allergies to GM Foods, bees and butterflies who are affected by the Neonic pesticides used in GM crops and all the hormones that are injected in them to achieve the large seen affect those who consume it. If the insects that are responsible for pollination and the continuation for the life cycle of other plants and organisms are dying due to GM foods and their production which affects sustainability (Beyond Pesticides). Overall, there are more than enough negative implications for the FDA to see that GM foods are different from non- GMO foods, from chemical make up to the overall environmental implications and thus labelling and full disclosure is necessary. Consumers have the right to know what they are consuming and the implications associated with GM production and GMO foods. The FDA fully supports companies such as Monsanto which is one of the largest GMO seed producers, whose products have largely impacted parent seeds. They are responsible for most of the agricultural profits in the GMO sector, which leads one to believe that the FDA may be supporting them for profits rather than consumer safety and public health as stated in their mission statement. As a society, if the government bodies in charge are not making adequate measures to ensure that the safety is a priority, it is the duty of the people to show them the importance of consumer transparency and corporate disclosure as well as the importance of environmental sustainability which have jeopardized. Buying more Pike 4 organic goods as well as replanting heritage seeds which can be obtained from seed banks such as Seed Savers Exchange, is the first step to making a change for oneself and the environment. The maintenance of these species will ensure biodiversity, maintenance as well as sustainability, buying more organic goods will be supporting the small business who strive to protect consumer health rather than being profit based. Additionally, petitioning for the revision of the Labelling Policy, organizations such as the Center for Food Safety has a petition for a Labeling Act, that will ensure that GM Foods are fully disclosed in the label for optimum transparency. Highlighting the issue on a public, formal platform will potentially force the FDA to see that GM Foods do have negative implications and are thus different from Non-GMO Foods which is why disclosure is important. In order to effectively get consumer transparency, the FDA is going to have to change their policy and specify what is considered as so that GMO foods can be differentiated and disclosed. However, until then, it is societies duty to stay informed about what they are ingesting and the adverse implications that GMO have on the environment, the body and biodiversity. Pike 5 Works Cited Beyond Pesticides. Bee Protective: Pollinators and Pesticides. 2016. <http://www.beyondpesticides.org/programs/bee-protective-pollinators-and- pesticides/chemicals-implicated>. Center for Food Safety. CFS Legal Petition to Label GE Foods . n.d. 20 January 2017. <http://www.centerforfoodsafety.org/issues/976/ge-food-labeling/the-cfs-legal-petition- to-label-genetically-engineered-foods>. Hidden Costs of Toxic Seed Coatings: Insecticide Use on the  Online Report. 2015. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . Antibiotic Resistance Threats in the United States  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 2013. Committee on Incentives and Test-Based Accountability in Public Education at the National Research Council.  Incentives and Test-Based Accountability in  2011. Food Standards Australia New Zealand. General information about GM foods  Food Standards Australia New Zealand March 2016. Seed Savers Exchange. Our Mission. n.d. <http://blog.seedsavers.org/blog/40-reasons-to-save- seeds>. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Guidance for Industry: Voluntary Labeling Indicating Whether Foods Have or Have Not Been Derived from Genetically Engineered  Guidance Document. 2015. United States Department of Agriculture Economic Research Service. Recent Trends in GE Adoption  2016. Pike 6