Scott1 Raekwon Scott Erika Staiger ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Why Division 1 Athletes deserve to be paid The growing debate on whether or not, the NCAA (National Collegiate Athletic Association) should have to pay Division 1 athletes for their performance and participation in collegiate sports, is a debate that has been causing a lot of controversy for many years. Division 1 athletes deserve to be paid primarily because full time Division 1 athletes are so busy constantly devoting so much time to their sport and their academics that they realistically, have enough time to secure a job and adequately support and provide for themselves. An article published on the Huffington Post by Matt Hayes stated that percent of Division 1 College athletes are living below the poverty This is a pressing issue that needs to be addressed. Students at The University of South Florida can help address this pressing issue by reaching out directly to the president of the NCAA, Mark Emmert and informing him of their opinions on the debate for paying Division 1 athletes. When trying to determine whether or not student should be paid, it is important to remember that Division 1 athletes are students as well. These athletes are busy almost everyday of the week devoting long hours to their sports. According to an article published on USATODAY by Steve Weiberg a study was conducted that found Scott2 that the average Division 1 college football player devotes an average of 46 hours a week to their sport, and that is not even including time spent traveling and competing. Then to add to all of that these athletes have to find time to manage and keep up with their classes. Imagine having to dedicate 45 plus hours a week every single week to your sport, find time to handle all of your classes and schoolwork, and then try to squeeze in time for a job. That alone seems like something that would be nearly impossible for the average college student to handle. However the NCAA expects student athletes to be able to handle all of this with no problem and no compensation at all. According to an article posted on the New Yorker by Ekon N.Yankah NCAA believes that paying Division 1 athletes is a grave mistake, because it fails to recognize the value of sports as part of an The NCAA believes that paying Division 1 athletes would be too expensive, and they also claim that if they start paying Division 1 athletes then there would be no way to come to terms with a coherent amount to pay individual athletes throughout different sports. The NCAA is a multi-billion dollar business franchise, which for many years has been consistently accumulating average annual revenue of six billion dollars. This statistic alone is enough to make the NCAA one of the most profitable business franchises in the entire world. There is no reason why it should be difficult for the NCAA to pay student athletes, because they have the money. The NCAA is bringing in enough funds every year to consistently pay college coaches nine figure salaries, and pay sports eight figure salaries in order to go out and recruit top athletes, yet college athletes receive any compensation at all. A possible compromise the NCAA could establish in order to pay college athletes would be to implement methods of pay through salary caps or stipend like endorsements. The NCAA could also decide how much to pay Scott3 athletes of different sports by taking a certain percentage of their sports income and dispersing it amongst the athletes. More people around the world should care about this issue, because it is a very serious and pressing issue. Division 1 athletes work very hard and make extreme sacrifices on a daily basis. Many of these sacrifices are some that the average student just would not be able to handle. Yet they are still taken advantage of on a daily basis. The discussion on whether or not division 1 athletes should be paid or not is a topic that has generated a lot of controversy for many years, and will probably continue to generate controversy for many more years to come. Students at the University of South Florida should take action towards this issue because this is a pressing issue that needs to be addressed. Student athletes are being mistreated and taken advantage of and the only way that it will stop is if you make your voices heard, and reach out to Mark Emmert the president of the NCAA and let him know your position on the growing debate on paying student athletes. Until then this will continue to be a problem that will cause more controversy for many years to come. Scott4 Works Cited A Way to Start Paying College  NY Times. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/09/sports/a-way-to-start-paying-college- Barbash, Louis. Pay or play: paying college athletes just fair to  Washington Monthly 2013: 13. Academic OneFiPerspectives 29.1 (2015): 115- 138. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sanderson, Allen R. and John J. Siegfried. The Case for Paying College  Journal of Economic Perspectives, vol. 29, no. 1, Winter2015, pp. 115- 138. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1257/jep.29.1.115. Yankah, Ekow N. Why N.C.A.A. Athletes Be  The New Yorker. The New Yorker, 14 Oct. 2015. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <http://www.newyorker.com/news/sporting-scene/why-ncaa-athletes-shouldnt-be- paid>. The of Paying College  Fresh Air, 2012. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct