Wilson 1 Michael Wilson Miriama Changamire ENC 1102 19 April 2017 Pollution and Environmental Degradation Because of the constant threat of pollution, the planet that humans currently occupy is in danger of becoming non-habitable due to environmental degradation. There are a number of different factors that contribute to this fact. Over the last century, humans have continuously left their fingerprints on the climate change that is now affecting the planet. Every time humans burn coal, oil, or gas (fossil fuels) to generate electricity or drive cars, carbon dioxide is released into the atmosphere, where it traps heat. (UCSUSA). Air pollution is certainly the most prominent and dangerous form of pollution, but water pollution is another factor that has led to the deteriorating state of the Earth. With almost 60% of species of life living in water (Conserve Energy Future), the constant industrial wastes dumped into rivers and other bodies of water causes an imbalance in the water leading to severe contamination of aquatic species. Not only are the aquatic species contaminated, but the entire food chain is affected, as humans are dependent on them. (Conserve Energy Future). Additionally, the spraying of pesticides on plants can pollute the ground water system, as well as the soil. Soil pollution can lead to plants not being able to grow properly, which can lead to soil erosion. The best way to combat these forms of pollution is to educate the general public on the issue of pollution. The more that the public knows, the more likely they will be to act in their daily lives, which is why the people of Earth must become educated on the causes of environmental degradation. When the peoplebecome more aware of Wilson 2 environmental degradation, they will learn how the issue can cause flooding and declining health, and act on the issue by reducing the usage of fossil fuels and contacting their representatives. In order for any sort of progress to be made on the issue, people around the world must have a good understanding of the background and causes of the issue of environmental degradation, because understanding the effects of air, water, and soil pollution may cause them to engage. Understanding the issue can give people a reason to use less fossil fuels and contact their local representatives about environmental degradation. Environmental degradation is the disintegration of the earth or the deterioration of the environment through consumption of assets, like air, water, and soil. (Conserve Energy Future). Air pollution, which is the release of pollutants into the air that are dangerous to humans and the planet, can have detrimental effects on the continued growth of climate change. For example, smog, which is considered level occurs when emissions from combusting fossil fuels react with sunlight. (NRDC). The source of smog can be directed towards cars and trucks, factories, power plants, engines, and anything that combusts fossil fuels. (NRDC). Smog is not only dangerous to the Earth, but also to humans, as it irritates the eyes and throat, and also damage the lungs of those who breathe it in. In addition to air pollution. The United States has made great progress on the issue (EPA), as the Clean Air Act of 1990 set the stage for protecting the later of the ozone layer and improving air quality and visibility. Additionally, water pollution is a strong factor contributing to the deterioration of the climate. This type of pollution is the result of toxic substances entering bodies of water such as lakes, rivers, and oceans, and getting dissolved in them, lying in the water or depositing on the bed. When this happens, the quality of the water degrades. Water pollution not only harmful to all of the aquatic species found in water, but to humans and animals Wilson 3 found on land. While the damage to our health may not be immediate, long term exposure can be harmful (Water Pollution). For example, heavy metals from industrial processes can accumulate in nearby lakes and rivers, which are toxic to marine life, and therefore the humans who eat them. Additionally, suspended particles in freshwater reduces the quality of drinking water for humans and the aquatic environment for marine life (Water Pollution). Another form of pollution that contribute to the degradation of the earth is soil pollution, which is defined as the presence of toxic chemicals in soil, or in high enough concentrations to pose a risk to human health and/or the ecosystem. There are several types of soil pollutants, including lead (which can originate from vehicle exhaust, agricultural activities, and mining), mercury (which can accumulate in plants and vegetables grown on polluted oils), and arsenic (which can be traced back to the electronics industry, pesticides, and mining). (Environmental Pollution Center). All of those living on the planet Earth, including humans, will be directly affected by the effects of environmental degradation. The impacts of climate change, and ultimately environmental degradation, include warming temperatures, changes in precipitation, increases in the frequency or intensity of extreme weather events, and rising sea levels. For example, Florida is in the crosshairs of climate change (Climate Central). The global average sea level has gone up about 8 inches since 1800. Even a small amount of sea level rise can make a big difference.. Now, however, people in Southern Florida are already the price for climate change, as salt water is pushing through porous bedrock into coastal drinking water supplies. (Climate Central). A recent Florida Atlantic University study estimated that just 6 more inches of sea level rise very plausible within two decades would cripple about half of South flood control capacity. In addition to water pollution, the effects of air pollution can have very serious effect Wilson 4 on the health of all humans. Those more vulnerable to the effects of air pollution are children, seniors, and people with asthma (Our Air). Additionally, anyone who spends an extended amount of time outside (i.e. working, exercising, etc.) are especially at risk of causing cancer and can also cause non-cancer health effects. All of us who share the planet are at risk of suffering the effects of pollution, and the worsening condition of the earth are only yet another reason for humans to collaborate in hindering pollution. For any difference to be made on pollution, humans must take action. The Earth must work together as a planet by collaborating towards the hindering of pollution. There are several ways for anyone to get involved in reducing fossil fuels. First, humans must put an end to the reliance on the them. Reducing the use of fossil fuels can be done several ways, including simply weather-proofing homes; this can not only reduce energy use, but also save up to 30% on energy bills (ECY). Another fun and easy way to save money on heating and cooling costs is to plant trees and vegetation Trees absorb Carbon Dioxide and give off Oxygen, which is great for protecting the atmosphere. Additionally, people can contact many of their local representatives in order to voice their opinion on the issue. Americans can contact Congress and raise their opinion on the issue. It is the duty of Congress to listen to the voices of the people that it represents. For this reason, it is important for anyone with concern for their planet and health to contact their local representatives, as listening to the opinions of the people and making laws from those opinions is exactly what Congress is meant to do (Visit The Capitol). Taking action on the deterioration of Earth is not only the duty of humans as a species, but our requirement in order to survive. Wilson 5 As the deterioration of the Earth worsens from day to day, the people of the planet must collaborate in putting an end to the environmental degradation that has been caused by the effects of pollution. It is absolutely necessary that the world work together on hindering the effects of pollution as much as possible in order to stop climate change. The survival of mankind is dependent on humans acting. So, humans must become educated on the causes of environmental degradation, learn about its effects, and take action by reducing fossil fuel usage and contacting their representatives. Wilson 6 Works Cited About  U.S. Capitol Visitor Center. N.p., 08 Feb. 2016. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <https://www.visitthecapitol.gov/about-congress>. What YOU Can Do Climate Change Education Washington State Department of Ecology. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <http://www.ecy.wa.gov/climatechange/whatucando.htm>. Air Pollution and  Santa Barbara County Air Pollution Control District. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <https://www.ourair.org/air-pollutants-and-our-health/>. What Is Soil  What Is Soil Pollution Environmental Pollution Centers. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <https://www.environmentalpollutioncenters.org/soil/>. Health Water Pollution Guide. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <http://www.waterpollution.org.uk/health.html>. Overview of the Clean Air Act and Air  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 04 Jan. 2017. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <https://www.epa.gov/clean-air-act-overview>. November 01, 2016 Jillian Mackenzie. Air Pollution: Everything You Need to  NRDC. N.p., 21 Mar. 2017. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <https://www.nrdc.org/stories/air-pollution-everything- youneed-know#sec1>. Causes and Effects of Environmental  Conserve Energy Future. N.p., 24 Dec. 2016. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <http://www.conserve-energy-future.com/causes-and-effects- ofenvironmental-degradation.php>. Wilson 7 How Do We Know That Humans Are the Major Cause of Global  Union of Concerned Scientists. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. togw-faq.html#.WPZ9TVMrKM8>. Pollution: Causes and  Conserve Energy Future. N.p., 24 Dec. 2016. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <http://www.conserve-energy-future.com/pollutiontypes.php>.