Winn 1 John Winn Ms. Changamire Composition 2 4/19/17 One in the Chamber: The Truth about Modern Gun Laws. Gun laws in the United States have been controversial and incredibly prone to change. Ever since the right to bear arms was introduced there has been debate on whether or not that should go unrestricted. In recent history gun restrictions and outright bans have made being a gun owner more difficult than ever. Everything from banning guns with magazines of a certain size to outright banning specific guns. These restrictions infringe on the second amendment have gone too far, and could potentially endanger the lives of the American people. Gun laws today are frivolous and ultimately do little to actually stop gun violence in America. The banning of fire arms labeled is actually relatively pointless and could have drastic consequences. Guns banned in a bill that bans assault rifles actually technically assault rifles, instead they are simply very aggressive looking rifles. Banning guns solely on looks creates a dangerous precedent in America, as firearms typically built to be non-threatening, so this bill can lead to banning more guns simply based on their appearance. Guns are used for home defense as well, meaning that this bill can actually inhibit the American ability to protect themselves, and make it impossible to legally bring their favorite gun to the range. Guns banned in this bill also are used in competitions, and have effectively Winn 2 destroyed a competitive hobby for the states that have banned them (NRA-ILA. Magazine size restrictions and safety locks are an incredibly nonsensical restriction that only inconveniences American people. Magazines are the part of the firearm that holds bullets. This may be referred to as a clip but the correct term is a magazine. Magazine size has little to do with violent gun outbursts, and since a magazine restriction would make them smaller than the standard size of a magazine it could put American lives in danger should a home invader illegally acquire larger magazines. Reducing the size of magazines is not a viable option, as less than one percent of gun violence outbreaks involve firing more than ten shots. Safety locks also do the same thing. Safety locks makes it more difficult to operate a firearm, and in fact it could potentially endanger perfectly good people in the event they would need to use their firearm for recreation or in self-defense NRA-ILA. Gun crimes have been a common reason for restricting guns and putting in more laws in place related to guns. However the fact of the matter is that less than one percent of gun owners commit crimes with them, and sometimes the guns used in crimes even the property of the people who commits the crimes. Creating gun laws that affect the majority of people when in fact the minority of people are committing the crimes, and even then the laws being put into place doing what people might think (NRA-ILA. Criminal Ammunition restrictions are unintentionally counterintuitive. At first it seems like a good idea to put restrictions on certain bullets, however these restrictions are often counterintuitive. Bullet restrictions make shooting competitions incredibly difficult depending on the kind of firearm. On top of that obtaining ammo for self-defense can also be even more difficult. This Winn 3 alone should make bullet restrictions clearly unnecessary, but any bullet can be used to harm people so putting any restrictions on any one bullet type is silly (NRA-ILA. Overall these new gun laws are doing the opposite of their intended effects. These laws are putting American lives in danger, and can be dangerous. These laws do not effectively protect against criminals, and they make it even harder for the average citizen to protect themselves from the criminals who would simply bring in illegal firearms to commit crimes. These laws are restricting American citizens and infringing on their freedom to arm themselves. Winn 4 Works Cited NRA-ILA. NRA-ILA, www.nraila.org/issues/ammunition/. Accessed 19 Apr. 2017. NRA-ILA. NRA-ILA, www.nraila.org/issues/assault- weapons-large-magazines/. Accessed 19 Apr. 2017. NRA-ILA. Criminal NRA-ILA, www.nraila.org/issues/crime-criminal-justice/. Accessed 19 Apr. 2017.