Shtrom 1 Andrii Shtrom Professor Erika Staiger ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Significance Of The Gun Violence Prevention In The U.S. Gun violence in the United States is a very significant issue because an incorrect usage of guns may be extremely dangerous and can possibly result in serious consequences. The example of the importance of the gun violence problem can be Texas which is known as a state where is the biggest number of the gun activity and most of people leave the state because of the gun law (Monthly, 39). According to the Gun Violence Archive, there were 4,297 deaths caused by guns in 2017 (7). In comparison to the statistics of gun accidents in the overseas countries, United States has a sum of 17,182 gun accidents in 2017, which is undoubtedly a great number for such a short period of time (Gun Violence Archive). It is easy to identify that gun violence is a really serious problem because there have been lots of examples where innocent people were involved in firearms incidents on the street, workplace, neighborhoods, college etc. In addition, nowadays people are allowed to hold a permit, which gives them an access to the carriage of a gun. However, even with such a permit people could potentially injure someone either accidentally or not. The government struggles to keep the usage of guns under the proper control but the real problem is that guns can be sold and transported illegally. Moreover, the great number of accidents recorded in the Gun Violence Archive illustrates the lack of the gun control which must be improved in the nearest future in the United States. Unfortunately, the problem called gun violence in America causes a huge amount of deaths and injuries yearly, so USF students must understand the significance of Shtrom 2 injuries caused by guns and enter or donate to organizations which fight against gun violence in order to avoid gun-related incidents in the country and specially university area. Nowadays, gun rights were protected by the United States Constitution. There is a big number of controversial opinions about the Second Amendment because some people state that with a presence of a gun they feel safer and have an opportunity to defend themselves. It is true, but the majority of people who bear guns may be potentially dangerous for surrounders. Many stakeholders try to engage the society and the government to reduce gun violence by banning guns in certain places such as banks, schools and other public areas. One of the examples of gun violence can be the shooting at Northern Arizona University in 2015 where one victim was shot and other three were injured (Time). In 2012, there was a mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School where 26 people died, including 20 children (Boerner, Heather, 36). Only in 2015 from february to october there were recorded 23 shooting accidents in campuses all around states (Time). This incidents are a strong evidence that guns are dangerous and they can harm people of all ages starting with kids and ending with retires. Furthermore, an opinion about bearing guns for a self-defend actions might lead to a nonsensical results, Politico Magazine states that most of home robberies usually happen during the nighttime while gun holder is sleeping. In 1997, almost 32,500 people were killed because of the different incidents such as suicides, robberies, rebellions, where firearms were involved (Cook, Ludwig, Jens, 17). Moreover, since 1965 almost one million people were shot due to the gun violence in the U.S. , which equals the quantity of deaths that were caused by Americans troops in all wars during the 20th century (Cook, Ludwig, Jens, 17). After all, most people do not think about the significance of the gun violence in their country. Florida is not the safest state because there are lots of records of firearm accidents. The statistics of Florida gun murders is considered to be shocking because the percentage of Shtrom 3 incidents have increased to 38 percent since 2000 and in 2011 the amount of 691 of guns homicides were reported to the police officials (Edition U.S.). Even certain areas that ban guns can also depict examples of non-responsible firearm usage. For example, in the end of 2015, in the University of South Florida a student under the alcohol influence made a couple of shoots from the parking lot into the dorm building. Unfortunately, even the legal bearing of the gun can turn into an extremely sunk result. Florida is also known as a state where illegal guns are spread in big quantities. Thus, according to the Tampa Bay police investigators, all of these illegal and stolen guns are currently being sold and traded by teens on the Tampa streets. If guns are considered to be dangerous even for the responsible adults, what can be said about the teenagers who do not have a clear understanding of the responsibility of bearing a gun yet? It is not the news that America has its own gun control laws, which prohibit firearms in certain areas and imposes strict rules on gun activities in terms of not only their safety but also the well-being of the other people. However, even with a presence of such strict laws, gun violence is still considered to be an undercontrolled nationwide issue (Aradillas, Elaine, 88). In reality, lots of people do not pay enough attention to the gun violence issue but they have to admit the fact that by living in a civil society one day they may be involved in a firearm situation, which may severely affect them, their family members or friends (Torr). If the government has gun control laws but the firearm activity is still increasing and seems to be uncontrolled, the American citizens should take the lead in helping the country to decrease the violence caused by guns. In addition, people should become the members of different gun-related organizations in order to become aware of the ways of identifying suspicious activities and reporting them on time to prevent the potential incidents of gun violence. Shtrom 4 In order to help the country with a gun violence problem, students who attend University of South Florida should understand the significance of the issue and volunteer with an which fight with firearm activity like Brady Campaign where volunteers can support activity online by signing petitions. Additionally, there is an organization called Coalition to Stop Gun Violence which has its office in Tampa Bay. USF students have an opportunity to participate in meetings in order to collect funds and donate to people injured by guns. Furthermore, students can help by the direct donation to any anti-gun stakeholder to prevent pointless deaths by guns. Florida residents can also combine and sign petitions for the government to provide certain policies which would be strict for every gun holder. Americans should dedicate their time and their life to participation in an anti-gun action and finally live in a safe country without the potential dangerousness of firearm activity. Overall, the United States has a nationwide problem called the gun violence that needs to be addressed not only by the government but also by the activists groups comprised of citizens who do care about their safety and the well-being of their families and children (Bernstein, 232). If the government cannot decrease or at least stabilize the number of gun violence incidents, ordinary citizens should help the government to improve the gun control laws in order to make the United States of America a safer place to live. Citizens should take any allowed actions against the problem of gun violence by participating in different anti-gun organizations. Therefore, it would be considered a brave step for the people who care about the safety of their homeland. Furthermore, to avoid the problem of gun abuse in the future, children must be taught by their parents how bad the gun violence is and why this issue requires an immediate resolution. Shtrom 5 Works Cited Aradillas, Elaine. Vol. 86 Issue 24, p88-90. 2p.Web. Apr. 16 2017. Analysis &  Gun Violence . N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Bernstein, Gun Violence  Essays in 16.2 (2015): 232-46. Web. Apr. 16 2017. Boerner, Heather. Leadership Journal: Are guns a health issue? Physician groups are sneaking October 2016, Vol. 3 Issue 5, Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Cook, Philip J., Ludwig, Jens. Gun Violence : The Real Costs (200) p 17. Web. 16 Apr. 2017 Hughes, Evan DeFilippis and Devin, Miguel Aron Lund, and Virginia Heffernan. The Myth Behind Defensive Gun  POLITICO . N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Staff, Elizabeth Behrman Tribune. Stolen guns a commonality in Tampa . N.p., 04 July 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Texas Monthly, Inc. Gun April 2016, Vol. 44 Issue 4, p 39, 1 Web. 16 Apr. . Torr, James D. Gun violence: opposing . San Diego, CA: Greenhaven Press, 2002. Web. 16 Apr. 2017 McCorquodale, Amanda. Florida Gun Murders Rise 38 Percent Since 2000:  The Huffington . TheHuffingtonPost.com, 22 Apr. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Northern Arizona University School Shootings  . Time, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.