Randy Wamsley Erika Staiger Eng. 1102 1 May 2017 Do Your Part, Be Water-$mart! The need to practice proper water use is now! As our cities and families grow, the need for clean and fresh water becomes more important than ever. Laws and regulations can be slow to pass and implement, allowing problems such as pollution and over-use of water sources to get worse before we start to fix them. By promoting awareness, educating the general public, and encouraging action, it is our duty as USF students to help to reduce waste water, conserve and safeguard natural sources, and save money in process, in order to provide this resource for our future. Having a clean and productive source of water is an ongoing public issue, even in places with abundant supplies such as Florida. With simple practices and just a little knowledge, we can reduce our water use to ease the burden on mother nature and save some money in the process. cities are growing rapidly; this puts strain on the regional water resources and inadvertently causes degradation of the environment. Heavy irrigation from farming, along with fertilizer nutrients such as nitrogen and phosphorous, and over- pumping the aquifer for drinking water is causing harm to the hydrologic system in Florida. Well manicured lawn also use excessive amount of these same fertilizers that end of washing into our natural water systems with rain and runoff. The same water is then cleaned to drinking standards and pumped to homes and businesses. Then waste water, which is anything that goes down the drain or flushed in a toilet, is sent to treatment plants. The average family is thought to use 80-100 gallons of water per day (USGS)! With nearly one million people in Pinellas County alone, that adds up to a lot of water, which in turn, has a price tag for these services. The impact on the environment can be devastating. Water is taken from lakes, rivers, and aquifers in large quantities and returned to the environment in poor quality and in much less amounts. The Florida Everglades is a prime example of the destruction of a natural hydraulic system. Historically the Florida Everglades covered over 100,000 km 2 , now, due to agriculture and urban development only about 47,000 km 2 still exist, devastating the ecosystem along with it (Impact and Mitigation...,1-2). Despite years of restoration efforts, progress is slow and producing minimal results; scientists have noted huge declines in flora and fauna, for example, as much as 90% loss of waterfowl have been lost since the (Impact and Mitigation..., 4). Our local authorities are taking action, but the process of passing laws and setting standards is slow to write and implement. Protecting natural systems means, not only safeguarding the supply of water for future generations, but aids in improving water quality as well. Wetlands act like treatment plant and filter pollutants such as suspended solids and excess nutrients (Impact and Mitigation, 4). The quantity of water taken from the system is just as important of the quality and quantity of water being put back in. Any water that is not washed down a drain is reintroduced to the surroundings as runoff. This water tends to flush out fertilizers and pollutants from our lawns and streets. Nutrients that are commonly over-used as fertilizers, such as nitrogen and phosphorous are said to be single largest cause of water quality degradation in (Sources of nutrients impacting surface waters in Florida: A review, 80). This is in reference to the excess nutrients added to the system that precede algal blooms, reduce fish populations, and kill coral. More often than not, excess fertilizers used in landscaping, to make lawns look greener, damage the ecosystem and pollute waters; this is preventable and there are existing guidelines to help. This is where we can make a difference. With a little knowledge and some changes in behavior, individuals and families can cut costs and contribute to the conservation of our natural resources. All public water is cleaned to drinking quality, no matter its particular use. That same treated water is used to flush toilets, wash cars, and water lawns; this costs a lot of money, but there are other options. Limiting and being mindful of water use can save a households money, by reducing the water bill. The website https://randywamsley5.wixsite.com/waterourfuture , is specifically created to provide abundant information and actions anyone can take to do their part. Existing and creditable agencies such as the Southwest Florida Water Management District (SWFWMD), Florida Department of Environmental Protection (FDEP), and the United States Geological Society (USGS), have tips and guidelines already in place to make saving money look easy! Climate suitable vegetation and proper watering measures can cut water used on lawns. Removing and limiting the use of pesticides and fertilizers can significantly decrease pollution in run-off. Limiting showers, using water saving appliances, and simply being mindful goes a long way in conserving treated water, thus decreasing the quantity taken from the natural systems. The SWFWMD website even provides a water use calculator to estimate a current use and can be a tool to compare progress and savings. The Environmental Protection Act of 1971, and the Florida Air and Water Pollution Control Act authorize the Florida Department of Environmental Protection and other government agencies, such as SWFWMD, to control and regulate water use (Florida Bar Journal). They set the standards and issue permits to control how much water is consumed, how it is being used, and the quantity and quality of waste water returning to the system. The public policy of Florida is to the waters of the state and to protect, maintain, and improve the quality thereof for public water supplies, for the propagation of wildlife and fish and other aquatic life, and for domestic, agricultural, industrial, recreational, and other beneficial uses, and to provide that no wastes be discharged into any waters of the state without first being given treatment necessary to protect the beneficial uses of such (Florida Bar Journal, 3). Rules and regulations are already in place to provide the necessary guidelines for proper water usage (SWFWMD). If a business or household were to disregard these standards, fines could be issued to offenders. Some state and city governments provide incentives for installing reduced rate appliances such as low-flush toilets, and water-efficient washing machines and sinks; the city of Atlanta, Georgia provides a $100 rebate for each water- efficient toilet installed (USGS)! With a few clicks of the mouse, these organizations can provide information on native vegetation for your lawn that thrives in the local climate, thus eliminating the need to water the lawn excessively or using fertilizers. They can also provide tips to evaluate a water consumption. SWFWMD is making a push for the use of reclaimed water, this is water recycled or treated at sewage plants and is not permitted for direct human consumption but can be used for other purposes, such as agricultural use, watering lawns, wetland restoration, and some industrial use. This is more cost-effective by decreasing the need for further treatment, plus benefits the environment. The burden of writing and implementing laws and regulations to safeguard our water is that a very slow process; this is why the need for action is urgent! Small and simple changes in water consumption benefit the environment and save money. Natural resources are not infinite or indestructible, it is up to society and individuals to take action to conserve, preserve, and restore the natural systems to ensure their survival for future generations. easy for anyone to your part and be water Website: https://randywamsley5.wixsite.com/waterourfuture Word Count: 1265 Works cited Badruzzaman, Mohammad, Jimena Pinzon, Joan Oppenheimer, and Joseph G. Jacangelo. Sources of nutrients impacting surface waters in Florida: A  ScienceDirect, Journal of Environmental Management, vol. 109, 2012, pp. 80-92. http://www.eco-usa.net/orgs/fl.shtml. Accessed 8 Apr. 2017. Handberg, Roger B. The Florida Attorney Environmental Protection  The Florida Bar Journal, vol. 85, no. 9, Nov. 2011, pp. 26-34. http://web.mit.edu/12.000/www/m2012/finalwebsite/action/call.shtml. Accessed 20 Apr. 2017. Schade-Poole, Kristin, and Gregory Mollwer. Impact and Mitigation of Nutrient Pollution and Overland Water Flow Change on the Florida Everglades,  Sustainability, vol. 8, no. 940, 2016. http://www.swfwmd.state.fl.us/education/watersheds/. Accessed 8 Apr. 2017. https://water.usgs.gov/edu/qa-home-percapita.html. Accessed 20 Apr. 2017.