Rodriguez 1 Rachel Rodriguez Dr. Theodosiou ENC 1102.050 Spring April 13, 2017 Project 3 Final Draft: The Death Penalty The Death Penalty; three words that generally mean very little to most people. The death penalty is a life or death decision, yet it is a topic that does not receive much attention. The majority of people who do care are those that are faced with the life threatening choice, or who have known someone who was. We do not even think twice about many aspects of our society, until we are faced with them. What will it take for society care? Do not let it get to the point where you or your loved one is facing execution. Since the year 1976, 1,448 individuals have been executed in the United States alone (Death Penalty Information Center). Although the amount of states still using the death penalty today has diminished, there are still a great amount of individuals who support this form of execution. The death penalty is extremely unjust and unfair, and a change needs to be made, before it is too late. You can help bring an end to capital punishment, all across the world, through the first ever Drive to Save  event, in addition to many other ways of getting involved! One of the most prominent ways to bring awareness to the death penalty, is to understand history. The first established death penalty laws date as far back as the Eighteenth Century B.C. in the Code of King Hammurabi of Babylon. At this point in time, executions were the go- to method of punishment, for even the most minor crimes. After years of using the death penalty, Rodriguez 2 individuals began questioning its ethics which sparked the United first ever abolition movement, in regards to the death penalty, beginning in the early (Death Penalty Information Center). From this point on, the death penalty experienced centuries of highs and lows. It was not until the when concern was on the rise over whether or not the death penalty was just. It was when Furman V. Georgia was brought to the Supreme Court, that they ruled against the death penalty since it was believed to be a violation of the eighth amendment, the cruel and unusual punishment clause (Acker 171). This argument still follows the death penalty. It involves punishment which, in many cases, is too severe for the crime committed. Imagine, standing, strapped down to a wall, completely alone, watching as numerous men line up across from you, guns in their hand, aiming right at you. What would you be thinking in what will be known as the last seconds of your life? Regardless, the firing squad, lethal injection, hanging, the gas chamber, and electrocution are all inhumane in every way possible. No person, no matter how bad the crime, should ever have to experience such cruelty. In order to fully become aware of the faults in death penalty, it is critical to understand where we currently stand on the issue. To reiterate, 31 states still use the death penalty as an active form of punishment today. These states include Florida, Georgia, Alabama, Texas, as well as many other Southern states. In fact, the only states which have completely abolished the death penalty are Alaska, Hawaii, and majority of the states in the North Eastern portion of the United States (Death Penalty Information Center). When thinking the death  many people overpass the large financial burdens which it encompasses. A study by Katherine Baicker, writer of The Budgetary Repercussions of Capital  estimates that between 1982-1997 the extra cost of capital trials was $1.6 billion (11). This is an extreme Rodriguez 3 amount of money, money that could be spent on things more useful to our society as a whole, such as highways, police, education, welfare,  (Baicker 22). The 31 states still using the death penalty today, have caused a huge burden to our society. By diminishing this number, we can help to create a better society, more beneficial to everyone. One of the most critical problems with death penalty lies in the fact that it displays strong racial biases. Carol and Jordan Steiker, writers of The American Death Penalty and the (In)Visibility of Race, strongly emphasize ...blacks were often executed for different crimes. Whereas the vast majority of whites sentenced to death were executed for murder, substantial numbers of blacks were executed for nonhomicidal  (245). In other words, blacks receive much harsher treatment within the court of law. In 2007, Yale University School of Law conducted a survey in Connecticut which revealed that African American defendants receive the death penalty at three times the rate of white defendants in cases where victims are  Additionally, the killers of white victims are treated more severely than people who kill minorities, when it comes to deciding what charges to bring (Amnesty  In other words, in cases where the victim was white, the murder was treated much harsher than those involving someone of a minority. All cases should be treated equally, regardless the race, color, and/or ethnic background of the murderer or the victims. Racial injustice has always cast a shadow over American criminal  (Steiker 243). We cannot continue to turn our heads to the racial biases at hand. As a part of a society that is becoming more accepting towards many aspects of daily life, it is important that we take into account the ways in which race is affected by the death penalty. Rodriguez 4 Another crucial problem facing death penalty, involves wrongful convictions. In fact, Since 1973, more than 155 people have been released from death row with evidence of their  (Death Penalty Information Center). This does not take into account the small amount of wrongfully convicted individuals who were not found innocent until after their execution. This is the story of a young man who fell in that small percentage. On August 24, 1993, Ruben Cantu, 26 years old at the time, was executed via lethal injection. Ruben was convicted of robbing and shooting two construction workers, leaving one dead, all at the age of 17. physical evidence-not even a fingerprint or bullet-tied Cantu to the He was convicted and sentenced to death solely on the eyewitness testimony of the surviving  (Williams 242). A decade after execution, two key witnesses including shooting victim, David Moreno, completely changed their story. Moreno admits that he felt pressured by the police to identify  Similarly, another key witness, co-defendant, admits ...under oath that Cantu was not with him on the night of the shooting and was not otherwise involved in the  (Williams 243). Stop for just one second, and think. What if this was you? Your loved one? He was only 17 when he was convicted of murder and spent, what later became, the last years of his life in jail for a crime he did not even commit. Ruben Cantu is just one, of many individuals who have been wrongfully convicted in the court of law, and wrongful convictions are just one of the faults in death penalty. According to Jon B. Gould and Richard A. Leo, writers of One Hundred Years Later: Wrongful Convictions After Over a Century of  in order for a change to take place, we must make it a holistic process in which supporters and experts are all involved at every step in the  (864). With that, we can bring an end to capital punishment just by getting involved in our communities. Rodriguez 5 The University of South Florida will be hosting the first ever, Drive to Save Lives event on May 6, 2017. USF streets will be closed to regular traffic. At the single entrance off of Bruce B Downs and Pine Drive, you will be instructed to pay $5 per adult and all children will be free of admission costs. You will then be provided a detailed map of the area, which will instruct you to drive to different locations on the map where information will be provided about specific aspects of the death penalty. The booths will include local spokespersons who have some relation to the death penalty, whether it be their family member, friends, clients, etc. In addition, there will be many organizations including student organizations from USF where informational flyers and souvenir-like items will be handed out. All of the booths and events will be aimed at informing the public and bringing awareness to the many ways by which the death penalty affects our society. Additionally, you will be able to fill up your gas tank one time at specific gas stations located near USF, for a discounted price, where all the proceeds will then go towards Amnesty International, to help abolish the death penalty. This is a great opportunity for you to be able to interact with the public and others who stand for the same cause, all while gaining insight on how the death penalty really affects you. Say, May 6 is not a good day for you? You do not have a car? You have other plans? Whatever the case may be, there are other ways you can get involved! USF will also be hosting an event on June 1, 2017 at 8pm, located in the Sundome. This event is completely free, and open to the public. The parents of a young man will speak about their feelings toward his murderer and the death penalty sentencing which he received. This will act as a reminder that, often times, not even the families of the murder victims support the death penalty. It will be an Rodriguez 6 extremely emotional and eye-opening event that will allow you to see the death penalty through a completely different perspective. In addition to these two events, you can join the movement to abolish the death penalty by visiting www.99millionstrong,org, sign up and make a donation. Also, the Innocence Project, an internationally known organization, aimed at ending wrongful convictions, sells t-shirts to the public, visit their site, www.shop.innocenceproject.org, buy a t-shirt today in order to help inform others around you. Another quick and easy way of getting involved includes contacting your state representative and expressing your feelings toward the death penalty. If enough people get involved in at least one of the many possible ways, we will be able to ultimately end capital punishment. A reform in our judicial system is extremely necessary. The death penalty is in no way, just. Over the years, research has shown a large amount of racial injustices in the ways blacks are treated in comparison to whites, in regards to capital punishment. It is a complete violation of our eighth amendment, cruel and unusual punishment, and allows for the lives of innocent men and women to be taken, for good. On top of all that, it has and will continue to cost our nation billions of dollars that could be used on more beneficial aspects of our society. We can actively end this horrific form of punishment! You can help to bring the number of states using the death penalty today down from 31 to 0. Please, take a minute to make a donation, do some research, get involved in some way so that this horrific form of punishment can come to an end, at last. (Word Count 1892) Rodriguez 7 Works Cited Acker, James. The Death Penalty: An American  Contemporary Justice Review, vol. 6, no. 2, June 2003, pp. 169-187. Amnesty International: Death Penalty. Amnesty International, https://www.amnesty.org/en/what- we-do/death-penalty/. Accessed 15 February 2017. Baicker, Katherine. The budgetary repercussions of capital  Advances in Economic Analysis & Policy 4.1 (2004). Death Penalty Information Center: Facts About the Death  The Death Penalty Information Center, http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org/. Accessed 20 Jan. 2017. Gould, Jon B. and Leo, Richard A. One Hundred Years Later: Wrongful Convictions After a Century of Research (2010). Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Vol. 100, No. 3, 2010; Univ. of San Francisco Law Research Paper No. 2010-28. SHOP for the Innocence Project. The Innocence Project, http://www.shop.innocenceproject.org/. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. Steiker, Carol S. and Jordan M. Steiker. American Death Penalty and the (In)Visibility of Race, the  University of Chicago Law Review, no. 82, 2015, pp. 243-294. Williams, Kenneth. Why It Is so Difficult to Prove Innocence in Capital , 42 Tulsa L. Rev. 241, 2006, pp. 240-243.