Joyce 1 Shannon Joyce Professor Erika Staiger ENC 1102 1 May 2017 The Need for Teacher Tenure Teacher tenure, in universities, is a policy which prevents professors being fired due to reasons unrelated to their educational practices. Tenure is earned over numerous successful years in the profession, making it more difficult to fire more experienced professors, who are often paid more. Teacher tenure guidelines differ from state to state, each with their own guarantees and restrictions. Teacher tenure is necessary in the colleges and universities for numerous reasons, such as a protection from being fired for any personal, political, or other non-work related reasons or due to their higher pay, compared to less experienced teachers. A regulation that could possibly be set is implementing a reward and punishment system, in which the effective teachers will be kept, while the ineffective teachers will be held accountable, which would be beneficial to both professors and students. During evaluations, teachers who are not seen as effective would be provided with one year of training and support. To establish set teacher tenure regulations in the education system, the students of the University of South Florida must educate themselves and others on the importance of teacher tenure, and speak to their representatives in the government. There are many advantages and benefits that go along with the establishment of teacher tenure, strengthening the idea that tenure is necessary. Two advantages of tenure, as mentioned above, are a protection from being fired for any personal, political, or other non-work related reasons or due to their higher pay. There are arguments against teacher tenure laws, such as possible complacency that may be created as a result. Disputing this argument, according to Joyce 2 Perry A. Zirkel, a professor of education and law at Lehigh University, lack of will, not tenure laws, is what really prevents administrators from removing poor performers from the (1). In his article, Zirkel defeats the argument of the difficulty to fire a bad teacher, which he states is based off of tenure or the law, but it is instead due to inflated performance Another advantage to tenure is the fact that the idea of a secure and stable job will attract many people to become interested in choosing teaching to be their profession Tenure - Cecil W. Scott, of Columbia University, describes tenure as necessary because laws supplement civil service, civil rights, and labor laws in two important Tenure legal protections by shifting to the employer the burden to prove the termination is and a range of discriminatory rings not covered under race and gender antidiscrimination (Scott, 1). Another advantage to the establishment of teacher tenure laws across the education system is the guaranteed innovation in teaching Tenure - Richard D. Kahlenberg, a senior fellow at the Century Foundation, with expertise in education, civil rights, and equal opportunity, states numerous reasons why tenure is necessary, which includes because it was to protect academic freedom in the and it a bulwark against sex and race Joshua Dunn, a professor of political science at the University of Colorado-Colorade Springs, states: of tenure for teachers who have it will face difficult legal challenges, while reforms focused on new hires are more likely to His article also discusses specific court cases within the Supreme Court, dealing with the U.S. Constitution, and various state constitutions. Dunn believes there are ways to reform tenure positively, but also displays reasons why tenure is so important as it is. Relating directly to students at any university, and specifically the ones attending the University of South Florida, tenure affects college students head-on. Although it is not popularly Joyce 3 discussed amongst students, tenure plays a large role in the faculty members the students deal with on a daily basis. According to the National Education Association, a tenured professor retires or a new position is created, too often the new position is not put on the tenure track. Colleges say this gives them greater flexibility to meet student needs. But the real reason is to save money, and the real effect is to lower Truth About Tenure in Higher Without tenure, schools can easily fire experienced professors for a reason beyond their control, or simply a reason that may not necessarily be justifiable for firing. The real motive behind firing a skilled professor may be due to tight budgets, and the desire to hire less experienced teachers, who will not be paid as much. According to the article, The Truth About Tenure in Higher Education, part-time faculty earn very low per  salaries and few, if any, This can make it necessary for the part-time faculty to obtain another job, possibly full-time, and therefore takes away from the time available to students. These factors affect college students directly, making it obvious why they need to make the initiative and take strides toward teacher tenure regulations being implemented into the education system. The students of the University of South Florida must educate themselves and others on the importance of teacher tenure, and speak to the representatives in the government, in order to make a change within the education system regarding tenure. Universities need regulations, such as establishing a reward and punishment system, in which the effective teachers will be kept, while the ineffective teachers will be held accountable. As mentioned, during evaluations, teachers who are not seen as effective would be provided with one year of training and support. On May 03, 2017, students will call in to their local legislators and representatives and voice their opinion regarding teacher tenure. With an overflow of voices being heard by the government, they will be able to make an impact. If they are having trouble trying to figure out how to reach your Joyce 4 representatives, go to the  page on the website, which gives links providing the contact information for the representatives local to the University of South Florida. On June 23, 2017, there will be an event where students will make a particular point to educate at least one person they interact with during their daily routine on teacher tenure and its importance. For example, you could start off the conversation by simply asking: What are your thoughts on teacher  and if they look clueless, inform them what it is and why you care about it. Although these are two specific days where the events are taking place, the students at the University of South Florida can make their opinion heard any day of the week, month, and year. Although its name directly refers to teachers, teacher tenure affects a lot more than just professors. Tenure regulations will affect students at the university almost as much, if not the same amount, as it affects the professors placed under these regulations. Teacher tenure is necessary in the education system for reasons such as a protection from being fired for any personal, political, or other non-work related reasons or due to their higher pay, such as adjunct professors or graduate students. Once students at the University of South Florida realize the affects teacher tenure regulations have on them, they will then be able to take action and demand set regulations in the education system. As mentioned above, educating others on the importance of teacher tenure and informing the ones who hold the power to put tenure regulations in place will make a big impact on the need for regulations in the education system. Students at university can make a big difference, probably much larger than they realize. All students need is the initiative and the means to make something happen, and they will. Set tenure regulations in the education system are possible, and the students at the University of South Florida have the ability to make a difference. Joyce 5 Works Cited Zirkel, Perry A. Teacher tenure is not the real  Phi Delta Kappan 92.1 (2010): 76-77. Scott, Cecil W. Review of Educational Research, vol. 10, no. 3, 1940, pp. 235- 239., www.jstor.org/stable/1167875. Kahlenberg, Richard D. Teacher Tenure Has a Long History And, Hopefully, a  Phi Delta Kappan, vol. 97, no. 6, Mar. 2016, pp. 16-21. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1177/0031721716636866. Dunn, Joshua 1. Hands off My  Education Next, vol. 17, no. 2, Spring2017, p. 7. EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.ed u/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eue&AN=121697222&site=eds-live. Tenure - ProConorg Headlines, teachertenure.procon.org/. Accessed 13 Apr. 2017. Truth About Tenure in Higher NEA, Higher Education Departments of the National Education Association and the American Federation of Teachers, www.nea.org/home/33067.htm. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017.