Emanuel 1 Shanise Emanuel Professor Andrew De Carion ENC 1102 May 2, 2017 LGBT Rights and Religious Freedom Since the year 2010, the rights of the LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual) community have become an important subject for the United States government. As more people come out publicly, it has been taken into consideration that these people have civil rights just as much as everyone in the United States of America. Although, this does not mean that everyone has accepted the LGBT community with open arms. In fact, conflicts have occurred because of civil rights that the LGBT community have attained, such as same sex marriage. One of these conflicts being the right to religious freedom. Currently in society, these two issues overlap and have caused many people to question whether, religious freedom and/or LGBT rights, has more importance over the other. Also, not only does the constitution have a role in this discussion, but the beliefs of these people must be considered as well. Accordingly, in the United States of America people have freedom to practice what they believe, but when it comes to LGBT rights, and its conflict with freedom of religion, people should not be discriminated against because of their sexuality. Before same sex marriage was legalized on June 26,2015, the United States Supreme Court was working to get legislations in order. Many were on board with same sex marriage being passed, but religious liberty protections had to be taken into consideration. This meaning that people who were accepting of heterosexual marriage, did not have to marriages inconsistent with their religious (Wilson 1162). As time went on more states legalized Emanuel 2 same-sex marriage, such as Illinois and California. Also during this time, the Supreme Court were basically trying to give both sides what they wanted, as far as freedom to express beliefs. People from both sides were also suggesting that compromise was not a good idea. Nevertheless, the Supreme Court stated that values of personal liberty that support an right to live according to his or her religious convictions also support an right to follow and fulfill his or her essential (Wilson 1176). As 2015 drew nearer, there was an increase in support for same-sex marriage. The factors that were helping this increase were democratic support, religious affiliation (or lack thereof), and people who appeared to have greater formal education. On June 24, 2011, in the city of New York, a group of Evangelicals were interviewed for their perspective on gay marriage, after the Marriage Equality Act was passed. The group being interviewed were from a church named (Anderson, Vanderbeck and Sadgrove 247), for the purpose of the interview. This church in particular was a very liberal parish. However, once Bishop Gene Robinson came out, there had been discussion of the people leaving the church because of his open sexuality. In fact, the members of St. not view same-sex relationships as equal to heterosexual (Anderson, Vanderbeck and Sadgrove 251). While this does not represent the entire Christian community, it does give insight as to how a sect of Christianity would handle an issue such as same-sex marriage, and homosexuality in general. Subsequently, it has been two years since same-sex marriage was legalized and more people have accepted this change in society. It has since been noted that because of the religious freedom legislation, people have the right to refuse service to anyone if it imposes on the religious beliefs. In 2015, a couple who owns a pizza restaurant were interviewed by a reporter to see what their stance on same sex marriage. In the beginning of the interview, the reporter had Emanuel 3 simply asked whether they would discriminate against a customer based on their sexual orientation. The couple who are devoted to the Christian faith, replied saying would never refuse to serve a patron just because that person was a member of the LGBT community and that discrimination was wrong and against every tenant of their (Riley 301) The reporter then asks what they would do if same sex couple asked them to cater their meal for their wedding. The wife then answers our faith teaches us that marriage should only be between one man and one could not participate in a same sex wedding ceremony or reception by catering a (Riley 302) This is where conflicts and objections appear. The conflict being that they would serve a LGBT individual but not an engaged LGBT couple, based on their religious practices. This couple justifies their refusal with their religious faith, but everyone does not believe in the same thing. Whether or not the customers are LGBT oriented or straight, everyone does not practice the same religion; so not only could they refuse service to LGBT individuals but also to anyone that has a set of beliefs that is different from their own. This is supported by this statement from the article, Religious Refusals To Public Accommodations Laws: Four Reasons To Say No, voicing that effort to end discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity in the law and culture is at a critical juncture... will our laws accommodate those who object on religious grounds? If the promise of equality is to be robust, this Article argues, the answer must be (Melling 192) Again, as far as constitutional rights, these business owners have the right to refuse service to anyone. However, if there is ever going to be an end to discrimination, change has to take place for the greater good. People should not be silent about this issue, because change cannot be made based on silence. Also change takes time and does not need to be made forcibly. calls for Emanuel 4 accommodation also often rest on a belief that gradual culture change will be better and longer lasting change than that demanded by (Melling 185) There are organizations that are pro the right of the LGBT community and it is not difficult to get in touch with them, so that support can be shown. Equality Florida Action, Inc. is an advocacy organization for civil rights and full equality for LGBT community. This organization is Florida so that no one suffers harassment or discrimination on the basis of their sexual orientation or gender (Smith and Pollitzer) They offer leadership training and volunteer opportunities for those who would like to get involved. Each staff member, whether it is Chief Executive Officer, Nadine Smith or Public Policy Director, Hannah Willard, can be contacted for inquiries about the organization. LGBT civil rights and religious freedom are matters that interact with each other in society. Both are very important seeing as how everyone should have the right to express themselves and their beliefs. LGBT rights has seen more resentment when it comes to expressing their freedom, especially in recent years with the legalization of same sex marriage. People need to be aware that discrimination is not a reasonable solution. Society is changing and more people should be informed about the LGBT community. Therefore, no one should be forced into a set of beliefs, but in seeing that support for the LGBT community grows over time, an understanding needs to be made that the rights of the LGBT community are just as important, if not equal, to everyone rights in the United States of America. Word Count: 1217 Emanuel 5 Works Cited Anderson, Johan, et al. Same sex marriage, civil rights rhetoric, and the ambivalent politics of Christian evangelicanism in New York  Sexualities (2013): 245-260. Document. Melling, Louise. Relligious Refusals To Public Accomodation Laws: Four Reasons To Say  (2014): 177-192. Document. Riley, Alex. Religious Liberty vs. Discrimination: Striking A Balance When Business Owners Refuse Service to Same-Sex Couples Due to Religious  Southern Illinois University Law Journal (n.d.): 301-321. Document. Smith, Nadine and Stratton Pollitzer. Equality Florida Action . 2014. 14 April 2017. Wilson, Robin Fretwell. Marriage of Necessity: Same-Sex Marriage and Religious Liberty  (2014): 1161-1268. Document.