Selmeci 1 Juliette Selmeci Instructor Mariama Changamire ENC 1102 18 April 2017 The Drinking Age in the United States On July 17, 1984 the National Minimum Legal Drinking Age Act became a law, officially changing the drinking age in the United States from eighteen years of age to twenty one years of age (Liebschutz 1). Alcohol is a dangerous substance to consume as it affects the mind and can interfere with a judgment, rational thinking ability, and health. Alcohol use can result in permanent brain damage; serious mental health problems and alcohol dependence or alcoholism (Public Health Agency). The use and abuse of alcohol can interfere with the communication pathways, weaken the immune system, cause cancer and has been associated with sixty diseases (Public Health Agency). Even though alcohol consumption is illegal for people under the ages of twenty one it has not stopped youth from participating in the drinking culture. In fact, statistics have shown that people from the ages of twelve to twenty years of age drink eleven percent of all the alcohol consumed in the United States (Siqueira). Alcohol is the most widely abused substance among youth (Siqueira 718). Approximately eighty percent of college students consume alcohol. Approximately half of college students, who drink, also consume alcohol through binge drinking (Siqueira). Binge drinking is defined as a pattern of drinking that brings a blood alcohol concentration to 0.08 grams percent or above(Jennison). This occurs when men consume five or more drinks, and when women consume four or more drinks, within a two hour period (Jennison). A study published in Journal of Studies on have shown that young adults are more Selmeci 2 susceptible to addiction, dangerous risk-taking behavior, reduced decision-making ability, memory loss, depression, violence, and suicide when consuming alcohol (Barnett 106). The National Minimum Legal Drinking Age in the United States should remain twenty one years of age will continually reduce the number of alcohol related accidents and deaths as well as preventing serious health effects that alcohol can have on the developing brain. Alcohol has a strong effect on people and understanding the drug can be difficult; however, it is easy to see that drinking is a problem for everybody because its effects can be felt by everyone, even those who consume alcohol. Underage drinking can cause injuries and even death for not only the one drinking, but also for someone nearby. For example, car accidents involving an alcohol-impaired driver result in a death every fifty three minutes: the equivalent of twenty eight people per day (NIAAA). In total, Alcohol use is responsible for 88,0009 deaths each year. Alcohol use is the leading preventable cause of death in the United (NIAAA). This information is vital in my argument because it gives real life examples and factual information on how alcohol affects everyone. Something needs to be done, and something can be done considering that underage alcohol use can be prevented. The environment we live in today is very accepting of alcohol use and abuse with drinking seen in TV shows, shows movies and advertisements. With alcohol becoming more readily available to purchase with liquor shores posted on every corner an increase of drinking usually occurs within that area (Kuo). Studies, done by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, have shown that children usually start drinking as early as thirteen to fourteen year of age, early education is important; thus, society needs to stop accepting underage drinking because it is often viewed as something that is part of growing up and start discouraging it as proper education of adolescents can be extremely helpful in allowing Selmeci 3 young people to understand the repercussions and consequences that can occur because of excessive alcohol consumption. On the other hand, some people believe that if the legal minimum drinking age was decreased to eighteen years of age, it would better encompass our civil liberties, since people are legally considered adults at the age of eighteen and given the responsibility to vote, serve on juries, and be prosecuted as an adult, smoke cigarettes, get married, sign contracts, and join the military, but not allowed to drink alcohol. people also oppose the twenty one drinking age because by prohibiting young adults from drinking in places such as bars and restaurants that causes underage people to drink in unsupervised places where binge drinking and other unsafe behavior is more likely to occur. However, allowing young adults to drink in a so called environment does not in fact reduce the rates of alcohol related blackouts, sexual assault, and alcohol poisoning. Today, underage drinking is an epidemic that occurs all across the nation and can result in drain development issues among youth as well as accidents, and deaths. Because of this a change needs to be made in how young adults view drinking culture. In order to achieve this change, motivated people need to get involved and take action. This begins with educating people on the dangers that alcohol can have. Hopefully, by providing people with the information, facts and tools to take action, the amount of underage drinking that occurs can be reduced and ultimately prevented. The National Minimum Legal Drinking Age in the United States needs to remain twenty one years of age in order to reduce the alcohol related accidents and deaths that occur as a result of underage drinking. Selmeci 4 Works Cited Barnett, N. P., Clerkin, E. M., Wood, M., Monti, P. M., Tevyaw, T., Corriveau, D., & Kahler, C. W. and Predictors of Positive and Negative Alcohol-related Consequences in the First Year of Journal of Studies on Alcohol and Drugs, 2014. Web.9 Oct. 2016 Jennison, Karen. Short-Term Effects and Unintended Long-Term Consequences of Binge Drinking in College: A 10 Year Follow Up The American Journal of Drug and Alcohol Abuse, 2004. Web. the Effects of Public Health Agency. 2013 Web. 18 Apr 2017 Web. 1 Dec. 2016 Kuo, Meichun, Wechsler, Henry, Greenberg, Patty, and Lee Hang. Marketing of Alcohol to College American Journal of Preventive Medicine, Volume 25, Number 3, 2003. Web. 18 Sept. 2016 Liebschutz, Sarah. National Minimum Drinking-Age The Journal of Federalism, 1985. Web. 29 Nov.2016 Siqueira, Lorena, and Smith, Vincent. American Academy of Pediatrics, 2015. Web. 1 Oct. 2016 The National Institute on Alcohol and Alcohol Abuse. 1984 National Minimum Drinking Age Alcohol Policy Information System, 1984.Web. 9 Oct. 2016 Travis Glassman. the Glass Half Empty, Half Full or The Journal of Global Drug Selmeci 5 Policy and Practice, 2006. Web. 11Nov 2016 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The Surgeon Call to Action To and Reduce Underage Drinking: A Guide to Action for Families. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the Surgeon General, 2007. Web. 18 Apr. 2017