Lingyi Yang 1 Lingyi Yang Erika Staiger ENC1102 05/01/2017 How to Solve the Issue of Unwanted Pets With the development of society, living standard of human beings have been raised. People have time, money and resources to own a pet (pets) at home. However, raising a pet is complicated and troublesome and requires long-term commitment. The discrepancy between conception and the reality results in lots of People tend to deal with their unwanted pets in three main ways. First, some people have the pet euthanized, which means putting the pet down. Euthanasia has been causing controversies, as many veterinarians consider it unethical for young and healthy animals, while others argue that euthanasia is a more humane option than leaving a pet in a cage for very long periods of time. Second, many people simply abandon the pet, with the expectation that it will be able to take care of itself in the wild place or that it will be found and get adopted. However, these pets usually get killed because of hunger, weather, traffic, or normally easily treatable diseases. Third, those more responsible owners will take the pet to a shelter, or call an animal rescue organization, where it will be cared for properly until a new home can be found. However, there are far more animals that are waiting for a home than the potential adopters. This means the shelters need to get rid of the excess animals to make room Lingyi Yang 2 for newer pets and euthanasia is often used unless the place has a no-kill policy. The number of unwanted pets in the United States is shocking and actions need to be taken in order to alleviate this issue. actually impossible to determine how many stray dogs and cats live in the United States. Estimates for cats alone range up to 70 million (American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 2015). Among them, approximately 7.6 million companion animals enter animal shelters nationwide every year. Of those, approximately 3.9 million are dogs and 3.4 million are cats (American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 2015). The Humane Society of the United States estimates that 3-4 million dogs and cats in shelters are euthanized each year in the US because shelters are too full and there enough adoptive homes (The Humane Society of the United States, 2012&2013). There are a couple of suggestions on what the students of USF could do to contribute to solving this problem: first, think twice before making the decision to become a pet owner; second, adopt a pet instead of purchasing one; third, be responsible for the pet (including planting chip in the pet, taking good care of it and spaying/ neutralizing it when necessary, etc.). The fact that tens of millions of animals getting homeless annually and millions of them getting killed inside and outside the shelter has become so severe and people have started to question the society and humanity. Companion animals are not only best friends, offering their owners companionship, happiness and unconditional love, it has a great positive impact both physically and psychologically to its owner. Surveys indicate that there are health benefits of companion animal Lingyi Yang 3 ownership and pet owners report that they believe that companion animals are good for their health (Huss, 2014). Reeves et al. (2011) concluded in their study that one mechanism to increase leisure time physical activity would be to promote the appropriate and responsible acquisition of a dog along with promotion of dog . Meanwhile, companion animals can help their owner enhance the social interaction with other people and alleviate the feeling of social isolation (McNicholas et al., 2005). McConnelle et al. (2011) suggested that pet owners had greater self-esteem and conscientiousness as well as less fearful attachment. They also found that pet owners enjoyed better well-being when their pets fulfilled social needs better, and the support that pets provided complemented rather than competed with human sources. They concluded that pets can serve as important sources of social support, providing many positive psychological and physical benefits for their owners. Now leveraging the power of pets is becoming a vital tool in the treatment of a variety of medical conditions and those associated with mental health. Moreover, in their survey of 193 employees from 31 companies allowing pets in the workplace, Wells and e Perrine (2001) found that participants perceived pets in the workplace to reduce stress and to positively affect employee health and the organization and that participants who brought their pets to work perceived greater benefits than participants who did not bring their pets to work and participants who did not own pets. Companion pets also take important social tasks, for which some even sacrifice their lives. There are 2500 dogs in active services in the US military now, and 700 of them are deployed overseas. Every year, numerous well-trained guide Lingyi Yang 4 dogs start their life-long mission to serve, help and accompany blind people. The benefits of owning a pet and the devotion companion animals have made to society are tremendous thus it is unfair and merciless to simply kill them. As a matter of fact, in order to help lower the number of animals euthanized each year, some shelters have developed a no-kill policy which means they strive to keep their animals as long as it takes to find them new homes. No-kill shelters are usually run by groups that have volunteers or individuals with enough space to foster pets until a permanent home can be found. However, many of these groups and individuals have only limited space, fund and resources available, which means what they can do is very limited. As a students of USF, it seems to be an irrelevant issue if no pet is kept at home. However, the students of USF represent a new generation with a different thought pattern regarding animals and their attitude concerning this issue is vital in solving it. As students, what can be done to help animals in shelters are simple but meaningful. Volunteer job in animal shelters and donations initiated by students communities to improve living condition in animal shelters are the two main options. Meanwhile, there are some important things that can be done to help decrease the number of unwanted animals. First, having a clear thought and making the decision to own a pet. Raising a pet will definitely brings companionship and happiness, but on the other hand, it is complicated, troublesome, and costly and requires long-term commitment. So the sense of long-term responsibility and a full preparation are premise. Secondly, adopting pets instead of buying from breeders and pet stores. Animal protection communities advocate campaign for adoption instead of buying animals in order to Lingyi Yang 5 reduce the number of animals who have to be euthanized. There are lots of benefits to adopt the pet. Adoption will not only save the life of the pet adopted from the shelters which are over-crowed but will also make room and free up precious resources for another animal that the shelter will take in. Adopting an animal from a shelter is the best way to help the shelter continue its work. Meanwhile, shelters are full of healthy, sweet and smart animals who were abandoned not because of their behavior but generally due to the issues of their guardians. These animals are mostly house-trained and will save the new owners lots of trouble with the training from the beginning. Moreover, pets adopted from shelters and rescue groups usually cost less than pets purchased or even obtained for free. The total cost of vaccinations, spay/neuter surgery, microchip, de-worming treatment and health guarantee is usually covered by the shelters for an adopted pet. There are several other ways to contribute to alleviate this issue. As a pet owner, it is essential to make sure that the pet is kept safely and can not get lost. Secondly, microchip should be implanted so the pet can be found when it somehow runs away. Thirdly, spay/neutralize the pet when necessary to fight pet overpopulation and allow other pets to be adopted. Hereby, a short list of animal shelters are suggested: Animal Rescue Force of South Florida, Inc. (http://www.animalrescueforce.org/), Animal Rescue Force of South Florida (http://www.animal-aid.com/), Humane Society of Broward County (http://humanebroward.com/) and SPCA Florida Adoption Center (https://www.spcaflorida.org/). Conclusively, in modern society, unwanted pets are a serious issue and a Lingyi Yang 6 humane way to deal with it is necessary. The best way to deal with it is to encourage adoption. At the same time, making sure that the pet will not become stray animal by keeping it properly locked inside and implant it with a microchip are essential. Meanwhile, in order to fight pet overpopulation and give the chance to the pets in the shelters to get adopted, pets should be properly spayed/neutralized. Although what can be done as an individual only forms a small contribution to solve this problem, the joint efforts will finally take effects. Lingyi Yang 7 Works Cited American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 2015. Web Accessed. The Humane Society of the United States, 2012 & 2013. Pet Ownership and Shelter Population Web Accessed Huss, Rebecca J. Re-evaluating the Role of Companion Animals in the Era of the Aging  Akron Law Review: Vol. 47 : Issue 2 (2014), Article 5. Web. Mcconnell, Allen R., Christina M. Brown, Tonya M. Shoda, Colleen M. Martin, and Laura E. Stayton. Friends with benefits: On the positive consequences of pet  Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 101.6 (2011): 1239-252. Web. McNicholas, J. Pet ownership and human health: a brief review of evidence and  British Medical Journal 331.7527 (2005): 1252-254. Web. Reeves, Mathew J., Ann P. Rafferty, Corinne E. Miller, and Sarah K. Lyon-Callo. The Impact of Dog Walking on Leisure-Time Physical Activity: Results from a Population-Based Survey of Michigan  Journal of Physical Activity and Health 8.3 (2011): 436-44. Web. Wells, Meredith, and Rose Perrine. Critters in the Cube Farm: Perceived Psychological and Organizational Effects of Pets in the  Journal of Occupational Health Psychology 6.1 (2001): 81-87. Web.