Behling 1 Joseph Behling Professor Mariama Changamire ENC1102 18 February 2017 Project 1: Stakeholders in the Right to Carry a Concealed Weapon The right to carry a concealed weapon is becoming a huge debate. There also have been multiple mass shootings in recent years which civilian concealed gun ownership has been given blame. With so much going on with guns, this has divided stakeholders and their positions on the right to carry a concealed weapon. Some of the biggest stakeholders in this debate are the NRA, and The Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. The NRA is an organization to defend guns and specifically the right to carry a concealed weapon. The Brady Campaign, on the other hand, believes that banning and controlling guns will make America safer. They believe that civilians with guns just creates more problems than provides safety. With opposite beliefs hard to come to a resolution. Both groups want to provide safety to the people and have different ways of approaching it. The key is to have both stakeholders compromise because the statistics support both sides claims, therefore, validating to some degree each position. The debate over the right to carry a concealed weapon in America can be settled if those for it would be willing to compromise and allow stricter regulations for permitting, which is a term those against it are fighting for. The Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun violence is against civilians carrying concealed weapons. The Brady group has already begun some anti-gun campaigns. They have partnered up with the Clintons to have strong restrictions on assault rifles(2acheck.com). They believe that no civilian should own an assault rifle because there is no proper use of an assault rifle for a Behling 2 civilian. Their mission statement is mission of the Brady organization and its Million Mom March is to create a safer America by cutting gun deaths in half by (bradycampagin.org) They want to take the 32,000 people that die every year by guns, and cut that number in half. They believe the best way of getting that number down is more laws, extensive background checks, stricter restrictions and regulations for conceal and carry permits or to not allow at all, and to stop bad dealers all together. The Brady Campaign and other stakeholders have had some success on the control of weapons. a license to possess a gun and bans on purchases of guns by alcoholics appear to reduce rates of both homicide and (Does Gun Control Reduce Violent Crime). This quote shows that some measures of gun control are effective but not everyone agrees with it. There are some stakeholders that think we should have more freedoms in our weapons in order to protect ourselves. On the other side of this debate are stakeholders like the NRA who believe the second amendment be touched too much. They believe we have the right to bear arms and protect ourselves. The NRA take gun restrictions too well and does as much as they can to prevent more restrictions. They were founded in 1871 by William C. Church and Gen. George Wingate (home.nra.org). One law they are trying to protect is the right to carry a concealed weapon. There have been many debates about conceal and carry and the NRA has been fighting to keep it. They want to protect conceal and carry because states which passed these laws have reduced murder rates by 8.5%, robbery by 3% rapes Behling 3 by 5%, and aggravated assaults by 7%. those states not having concealed carry laws had adopted such laws in 1992, then approximately 1,570 murders, 4,177 rapes, 60,000 aggravated assaults and over 11,000 robberies would have been avoided (gunowners.org). The NRA also has strong statistics backing them up on why they believe they should prevent bans on guns Behling 3 Both sides provide a lot of strong information and statistics on why their side is right. Both groups want to do as much as they can to protect the people. The main thing wrong with these groups is that they combine their strengths. If they could compromise on the issue of the right to carry a concealed weapon, they would have accomplished an impact for the greater good of the people. A good middle ground is for the NRA to allow stricter regulations on permitting for gun conceal and carry. Individuals with mental health issues, illegal citizenship, felonies and breaking the law are valid reasons to restrict permits. While the Brady campaign must also give a little on their debate demands. They must accept that the law abiding citizen has a right, in the second amendment, to bear arms. The to bear does not say, with restrictions. Yet statistics show the need for some restrictions. For the Brady campaign they should let people keep conceal and carry with the compromise of stricter regulations to permit. Conceal and carry is very positive and has done a lot of good for the people. It has protected many and will continue to protect as long as it is legal, but with ALL guns their needs to be limits. Every gun needs to have background checks. No matter how small the weapon is their needs to be a background check to make sure the citizen purchasing the weapon is mentally sane and has a positive record. If any red flag pops up, there should be a deeper process like an interview and a longer time gap until they can purchase the weapon, depending on how questionable the citizens case is. They also need to work together and get bad/ illegal dealers out. Behling 4 Selling guns illegally is a huge problem that needs to be fixed because no matter if a weapon is illegal or legal, if there are bad dealers out there someone will get their hands on a gun and this continues the divide on legal citizens and their rights to carry a concealed weapon. I think both sides can agree that illegal sales of guns are bad and needs to be stopped Behling 4 Overall, carrying a concealed weapon can be a positive thing. A concealed weapon is a very delicate debate and has many stakeholders. Almost everyone has a different view on how guns should be controlled and if they should be carried by the average, law abiding citizen. There are two big stakeholders that come to mind when you think of the right to carry a concealed weapon, the NRA, and The Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. The NRA is all for guns and supports all rights with little limitations. They are a strong and long established group. They do as much as they can to prevent their guns from having restrictions and take them lightly when they do happen. The Brady Campaign is more on the other side and believes there should be strict restrictions on guns and little rights for the average citizen. They have also had a lot of success with some restrictions they have applied and want to keep growing on them. Both sides are very strong and have a lot of great points.The debate for the right to carry a concealed weapon in America can be settled if both opposing shareholders would just compromise. The second amendment gives us the right to bear arms and statistics show there needs to be common sense restrictions. Behling 5 Work cited Campaign to Prevent Gun Brady Campaign. http://www.bradycampaign.org/about-brady, 1 Feb. 2017. Web. 1 Feb. 2017 Sheet: Guns Save gun owners. http://www.gunowners.org/sk0802htm.htm, 1 Feb. 2017. Web. 1 Feb. 2017 Kleck, Gary Impact of Gun Ownership Rates on Crime Rates: A Methodological Review of the Journal of Criminal Justice. Journal of Criminal Justice, Feb. 2015 Web. 1 Feb. 2017 Kleck Gary, Kovandzic Tomislav, Bellows Jon Gun Control Reduce Violent Criminal Justice Review. Elsevier Ltd, Dec. 2016 Web. 1 Feb. 2017 Lang, Matthew Firearm Sales and Criminal Activity: Evidence from Firearm Background Southern Economic Journal. Business Source Alumni Edition, July. 2016 Web. 1 Feb. 2017 Rifle NRA, home.nra.org, 1 Feb. 2017. Web. 1 Feb. 2017 List of second amendment check. http://www.2acheck.com/the-boycott- list/nras-list-of-antis, 29 Jan. 2017 Web. 1 Feb. 2017 Policy violence policy center. http://www.vpc.org, Sep. 2016. Web. 1 Feb. 2017