Suda 1 Anthony J. Suda Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102.050 30 April 2017 The Dangers of Deforestation From child labor to drug trafficking, there are many issues that plague various societies across the globe, but seldom is it that one can find an issue that affects absolutely everyone. However, the issue of deforestation is one that affects people no matter where they are on Earth, even here at the University of South Florida. In a research article published by Earth Observatory, scientists claim that the current rate of deforestation continues, the rain forests will vanish within 100 causing unknown effects on global climate and eliminating the majority of plant and animal species on the (Urquhart et al. 1). If something is not done now, the world as we know it will and not for the better. Deforestation is an issue that can and will pose great harm for our environment and inhabitants, but we can work together to combat deforestation by lobbying for change and boycotting products that are produced by inherent deforestation. Through educating others and spreading awareness, you can help deforestation become a thing of the past. To understand the urgency of the need to combat deforestation, one must know the dangerous effects the problem creates and the threats it poses. The most prominent issue brought forth by deforestation is the issue of climate change. According to the World Wildlife Organization, forests play a huge role in the environment by soaking massive levels of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere that would otherwise contribute to climate change patterns. Today it is estimated that 15% of all greenhouse emissions are a result of deforestation (WWF Suda 2 Overview). If we continue to allow deforestation to happen, we will be caught red handed in aiding the destruction of the Ozone layer. According to a research article in the Science journal, it is mentioned that if carbon emissions increase, holes in the Ozone layer that block the UV rays will start to form, causing the Earth to warm up at an alarming rate. Then as temperatures rise, the ice caps will melt, causing sea levels to rise (Shukla et al. 3). This event would be disastrous for people living in Florida, as so many live in cities that are currently at or below sea level, such as Tampa. In an article written by Ben Strauss in the Miami Herald, level rise is more than doubling the risk of a storm surge at this level in South Florida by (climatecentral.org). If you live in Florida and plan to do so in 13 years, your future here is at stake. If deforestation is not stopped or slowed down, coastlines may very well be underwater in the years to come! However, this can be prevented if the effort to combat deforestation is successful. This is where you come in. By donating to organizations like Greenpeace and the National Resources Defense Council, you can make sure that our homes will not be underwater in the future. In addition to climate change, many different forms of wildlife may disappear if deforestation is not stopped. In a chapter written in Principles of Conservation Biology, it is stated that extinction, endangerment, and ecosystem degradation are not the aims of human societies, but are the unfortunate by-product of human (Groom et al. 63). While corporations and firms that profit from deforestation may not intend to destroy the homes of wildlife and ultimately cause their extinction, it is important to acknowledge the fact that their greed is the reason you and your children may never get to see a tiger or an orangutan, even in captivity! Although it may be hard to empathize with another species, we should take into consideration how it feels when our own homes are taken from us against our will, like in the Suda 3 event of a natural disaster. However, when the animals lose their homes, they go extinct. Because of deforestation, estimate now losing species at 1,000 to 10,000 times the background rate, with literally dozens going extinct every (biologicaldiversity.org). Unlike humans, animals and plant species do not have the luxury of simply when their homes are torn down. Because corporations that specialize in forestry and agriculture are the biggest culprits in causing deforestation, the best way to help curb deforestation is to hit them where it with your wallet. The power of the consumer is perhaps one of the most influential yet under- scrutinized forms of protest. Because companies produce goods and services based on consumer demand, the best way that we can help to stop deforestation is to prove to companies that deforestation is simply not good for business. Products like paper, timber, palm oil, and other agricultural products are often produced in an area where deforestation has occurred, so one thing you can do as a consumer is to become educated about the choices you make when buying these goods. By checking the labels and researching where and how your food and other household products are made, you can make the smart decision to only buy products that have been guaranteed by the company to be made in the most eco-friendly manner, and boycotting products that are not. As a consumer, you can do your part by making sure that the products you buy have the seal of approval from a credible forestry certification system, such as the Forest Stewardship Council (Greenpeace.org). In addition to buying eco-friendly products from companies like Paper Products and Environment you can make sure you steer clear from companies that contribute to deforestation, such as and (palmoilscorecard.panda.org). You can also do your part in reducing your own waste by reusing bags when you go grocery shopping or using a refillable water bottle as opposed to Suda 4 drinking from plastic ones. Finally, you can help stop deforestation by recycling paper products in your household, so that somewhere on Earth, a life will be spared as opposed to being cut down to replace the waste you have created. Though all these methods are instrumental ways in fighting the effects of deforestation, lobbying for policy change is an effort that we all must engage in to make a difference. To make our voices heard, we must demand that our representatives will work on our behalf, as opposed to special interests. As a USF student, you can call U.S. Congresswoman Kathy office at (813) 871-2817 or Senator Marco Rubio at (202) 224-3041 and urge them to take the initiative to help fight against deforestation by implementing anti-deforestation legislation. Deforestation is one of the most major threats not only to mankind, but to other species as well. It contributes to climate change, rising sea levels, and great losses to wildlife and other forms of biodiversity. By fighting for change through our lobbying efforts, our consumer power, and a few eco-friendly lifestyle changes, we can be the difference that saves our planet from its current rapid destruction. As USF students, we should make it our priority to ensure that our future and our future is one that is environmentally sustainable and free from deforestation. The dangers of deforestation are most certainly real, and its threats many, but with our conjoined efforts, we can clear out deforestation for good. WC: 1212 Suda 5 Works Cited Deforestation:  Worldwildlife.org. World Wildlife Fund, 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Solutions to  Greenpeace.org. Greenpeace, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. The Extinction  Biologicaldiversity.org. Center for Biological Diversity, n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. WWF Palm Oil Buyers Scorecard - Measuring the sustainability of palm oil  Palmoilscorecard.panda.org. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Groom, M.J. (2005). to In: Groom, M.J. Meffe, G.K. Carroll, C.R. (Editors) Principles of Conservation Biology. Sinauer Associates, Inc., Sunderland, Massachusetts, USA. Shukla, J., C. Nobre, and P. Sellers. Amazon Deforestation and Climate  Science 247.4948 (1990): 1322-325. Web. Strauss, Ben. Surging Seas Sea level rise analysis by Climate  Florida and the Rising Sea Surging Seas: Sea level rise analysis by Climate Central. Climate Central, n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Urquhart, Gerald, Walter Chomentowski, David Skole, and Chris Barber. Tropical  Earthobservatory.nasa.gov. NASA, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.