Jones 1 Kiemon Jones Prof. Mariama Changamire ENC 1102. 2 May 2017 Medical Marijuana Marijuana is the most commonly used illicit drug in the United States. Despite being illegal, its recent acceptance has raised many questions as to why people would use it in the first place which could be answered by the relaxing and recreational properties. Mary L. Mathre M.D. states although many people may use it for various reasons such as the ones mentioned above, there are other benefits of the drug which if people were aware of its therapeutic value and had the opportunity and guidance to use it effectively, countless others could benefit from its therapeutic properties. Although there are countless studies done to prove its harmlessness for regular usage as well as its medicinal properties, the law stands in most states which still criminalizes the plant. all the negative consequences of prohibition, none is as tragic as the denial of medicinal cannabis to the tens of thousands of patients who could benefit from its therapeutic (NORML) One of the organisations which support medical marijuana is American Alliance for Medical Cannabis (AAMC) this mission is advocacy, patient rights, and support. Additional aspects of the AAMC Mission include clinical research and educating decision (letfreedomgrow) These efforts aim to gain public support for legislation which influences the legalization of marijuana for its many medicinal benefits. In 1913, California passed the first marijuana prohibition law aimed at recreational use by 1936 initiating the trend and soon after, the remaining 47 states had followed suit. In 1937, the Marijuana Tax Act effectively discontinued the use of marijuana for medicinal Jones 2 purposes and marijuana was classified as a Schedule I drug in 1970. (Anderson) Although the drug was banned 80 years ago, in the United States, many people do not recognize the medicinal benefits today. It is in fact not even recognised by many healthcare providers solely because of its illegal status which could cause problems for professionals because any association with the drug may cause loss of professional licenses or prescription privileges and even criminal charges. (Mathre) Medical marijuana laws (MMLs) remove state-level penalties for using, possessing, and cultivating medical marijuana. Patients are required to obtain approval or certification from a doctor, and doctors who recommend marijuana to their patients are immune from prosecution. Medical marijuana laws allow patients to designate caregivers who can obtain marijuana on their behalf. (Anderson) Although this seems to be good news 19 out of 50 states have legalized the drug for medicinal purposes which means that much is still to be done to help treat sick people As of today, in Florida, state-qualified patients, except in cases where those who are diagnosed with a terminal illness, may possess cannabis strains containing ten percent or more of CBD and no more than eight-tenths of one percent of THC. (NORML) Ignorance seems to be the main reason that medical marijuana has not been legalized in the majority, if not all of the 50 states. Although the demand for drugs like marijuana has increased dramatically over the years (therapeutic, natural drugs) , the prevalence of diseases such as cancer and glaucoma have increased but the herb is still yet to be nationally legalized. It has been proven that marijuana can treat a variety of diseases, such as the ones named above (glaucoma and cancer). In a study done on the effect of smoked marijuana on chemotherapy- induced nausea and vomiting it was found that 14 out of 15 patients had a reduction in vomiting and nausea. (letfreedomgrow) While in a study on the effect of marijuana smoked for pain marijuana and oral THC decreased pain sensitivity, increased pain tolerance, and decreased subjective ratings of pain intensity in patients in the process of chemotherapy. Jones 3 (letfreedomgrow) It seems as if the plant is proving its worthiness to be more than just a recreational substance, but a drug which can be more effective than the ideal pharmaceutical solution for diseases such as cancer. For the affected patient of some disease what must one do whom is affected by a disease such as cancer or arthritis? In a 5-week study done using a cannabis based medicine, patients affected by rheumatoid arthritis were said to experience a significant analgesic effect was observed and disease activity was significantly suppressed. (Blake and Robson) Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic disease which affects joints as well as body system. If by treating people using cannabis based methods produces positive results then, the question should be asked as to why this drug is still illegal? The stigma attached to marijuana seems to be what is restraining its legalization by organizations such as the DEA and this needs to end. Sick people need to be treated for their various illnesses where treatments have been discovered. Chronic diseases affect human beings for the rest of their lives and without treatment life may become painful and full of misery or even worse, shorter. Time and time again researchers and doctors alike are presenting newfound evidence on the benefits of cannabis and organizations who hold the power to change laws such as the DEA are turning a blind eye to these results and more importantly, these sick patients. People affected by various diseases must now suffer in silence because of this or face the repercussions of being imprisoned for an illness they most likely had no control over. In light of the current situation, it must be noted that people who are in support of the medicinal value of the drug or who are even slightly intrigued by it should take steps to get more involved with the drug since it seems to be having a major influence in changing times. A good idea to get involved into the fight for legalization of medical marijuana is attending seminars where the topic is on medical marijuana. For persons to attend seminars such as the Aspen Legal Seminar (held on June 1, 2 and 3, 2017, at the Gant Hotel) where issues are Jones 4 addressed such as: the latest science of marijuana, latest developments in intellectual property rights in the legal marijuana industry and problems arising in financing a cannabis business. These meetings aid in empowering persons with accurate and up to date knowledge on the plant which can hope to further the medicinal movement which has only reached 19 states. As for the Aspen Legal Seminar, NORML Deputy Director Paul Armentano will address the latest science of marijuana; Oceanside, CA attorney David Branfman will lecture on the latest developments in Intellectual property rights in the legal Marijuana industry; Former US Attorney Bill Nettles from South Carolina will discuss his efforts to legalize the medical use of marijuana in a southern (NORML) Seminars can also educate interested persons who may have a family member whom is ill and who would like to know more about the benefits of marijuana in terms of treating diseases. Another method of getting involved is speaking to a congressional representative, congressional representative are people who introduce bills and resolutions, offer amendments and serve on the committee. By contacting these prestigious people, this enables to let their voices be heard to people who have the persons who have the power to change laws, and can actively do so. Governments cannot run countries without having people living in them, therefore in a democratic society such as the United States, opinions do count and whether or not the representative is in agreement, the action of voicing an opinion is powerful. In conclusion, the stereotypical opinion on marijuana having all round negative effects needs to be altered. With many different diseases around, solutions need to be found, so why is marijuana as a solution not being endorsed as well as utilized? It has been proven time and time again that the drug has better benefits than mainstream alternatives such as pharmaceutical drugs which speaks volumes about the plant. This outdated opinion needs to be changed and can be changed when you, the individual, takes initiative in one of the steps Jones 5 mentioned above which can assist in not only educating others about the drug but protecting people who are sick and more importantly, saving lives. (1357 words) Jones 6 Works Cited Anderson, Mark D. Marijuana Laws, Traffic Fatalities, and Alcohol Consumption The Journal of Law and Economics , 17 April 2017 Blake, Robson, et al. assessment of the efficacy, tolerability and safety of a cannabis-based medicine (Sativex) in the treatment of pain caused by rheumatoid Rheumatology , vol. 45, no.1, 2006, pp. 50-52. https://doi.org/10.1093/rheumatology/kei183 19 April 2017. National Organisation for Reform of Marijuana Laws , http://norml.org/about/intro. 18 April 2017. Kramer, Joan L. Marijuana for American Alliance for Medical Cannabis, http://www.letfreedomgrow.org/mission.asp 18 April 2017. Mathre, Mary L. Cannabis in Medical Practice: A Legal, Historical and Pharmacological of Therapeutic Use of Marijuana, https://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=rYwQk3e77vYC&oi=fnd&pg=PR7 &dq=%3F%3Fprotests+for+medical+marijuana&ots=oOUhTbx3AL&sig=7PFh0- Iprbfb8PuS0ZfvpNaa01c#v=onepage&q=%3F%3Fprotests%20for%20medical%20m arijuana&f=false 18 April 2017.