Whitcomb 1 Nathan Whitcomb Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 5 May 2017 Fighting the Obesity Crisis In America, there has been a health epidemic occurring within the past two decades: more people than ever are overweight and considered obese. This epidemic is so bad that the United States is one of the ten most obese countries in the world (Carlson 2). In 2004, the cause for this epidemic was postulated to be HFCS (high fructose corn syrup) when Bray et al. had noted a striking correlation between increases in HFCS use and rates of obesity in the United States (Bray 542). This observation of correlation set off a debate within the food industry on whether sugar or high fructose corn syrup are more detrimental to a health than the other. However, the issue is more complex than figuring out whether sugar is better than high fructose corn syrup and vice versa due how all sweeteners are processed by the body (Burgermaster 6). In addition, while sweeteners play a big role in the rise in obesity rates, the environment and policies in areas with large obesity percentages must also be considered. To effectively fight rising obesity rates, not only must sweetener use decrease, but we must also implement health-related campaigns and policies to promote exercise and decrease overconsumption. Despite their benefits, the use of sweeteners should be decreased due to the bitter effect they have on the human body. Used in many beverages and foods produced, their sweet taste means they can be added to food and drinks that are on the bitter side of the flavor spectrum to Whitcomb 2 make them more easily consumable. They can also be used as preservatives due to how they inhibit bacteria growth and retain moisture in foods. However, as noted before, they also have several drawbacks. Consuming sugar-laden (sucrose) food and drinks can make teeth a prime breeding ground for bacteria, which can lead to cavities. Excessive HFCS can inhibit in dyslipidemia (or high cholesterol), hepatic steatosis (buildup of fat in the liver), and insulin resistance (obesity) (Lustig 233). For these reasons, high fructose corn syrup is thought to be dangerous by Dr. Robert Lustig, a pediatric endocrinologist, due to how the sweetener is metabolized by the human body. While high fructose corn syrup is sometimes noted as just Lustig notes how dangerous it can be, even going so far as to call it without the (Lustig 233). His reasoning for this is that although high fructose corn syrup exhibit the same short-term effects as alcohol (such as depression and DUI accidents), it exhibits many of the same long-term effects as alcohol such as dyslipidemia, hepatic dysfunction, hypertension, malnutrition, and pancreatitis (Lustig 233). In addition to sugar and high fructose corn syrup, honey is another very popular sweetener used. While honey contains benefits such as an inability to spoil and antimicrobial properties, the human body processes honey in a manner like sugar and high fructose corn syrup because like sugar, honey is primarily composed of sucrose (Tuft 1). It is also denser than sugar, which means that teaspoon [of contains 21 calories compared to 16 calories in one teaspoon of (Tuft 1). In addition to plaguing those who are affected by it, obesity also effects the rest of the population through its economic impacts. According to School of Public Health (HSPH), obesity affects the economy both directly and indirectly. direct costs relate to those that from outpatient and inpatient health services (including surgery) while its indirect costs fall into several categories (HSPH 2). One indirect category of costs arising from Whitcomb 3 obesity is the of lost As the title suggests, this refers to the cost from an employee not being able to make it to work. While all people miss work occasionally, HSPH found that obese employees typically missed work more often due to absences, long-term disability, and premature death than non-obese (HSPH 2). Another indirect cost is the cost of insurance, due to how obese employees typically require higher life insurance premiums and require pay-outs more often than non-obese employees (HSPH 2). Additionally, in these areas not only are the costs of obesity rising, but also higher than costs in such areas that arise from smokers and alcoholics (Sturm 248). Due to the effects of sweeteners and costs of obesity, it is necessary to promote health campaigns and implement policies to restrict sweetener consumption. One way this can be achieved is by sending messages to local representatives and showing support for bills such as the Treat and Reduce Obesity Act of 2017. This bill would give those affected by obesity greater access to effective weight loss tools, in addition to professional monitoring. Supporting this bill is one of the most straightforward ways to push for changes to help the obesity epidemic in America because it involves writing a simple letter or email, or even a regular phone call to your representative. Additionally, another way to help reduce obesity in America is to donate to organizations like Citizens for Health who advocate against sweeteners such as high fructose corn syrup. Another way to help is to donate to campaigns that advocate for increased physical activity and against overconsumption such as the American Medical Association, Move, LIVESTRONG, NFL Play 60, Campaign to End Obesity, etc. These are all organizations that have seen success in improving access to healthy foods (that is still affordable), improving quality of life, hosting community events, educating the public, and bringing forth Whitcomb 4 policy changes. They have also seen success in educating people on making healthy food choices. Despite the sweet nature of sweeteners like sugar and high fructose corn syrup, their long-term effects on the human body are quite the contrary. This combined with overconsumption and lack of physical exercise has led to an obesity epidemic, with the United States being one of the top ten most obese countries in the world. With more and more people becoming obese, action must be taken. A great way to get involved is to contact your local representatives and tell them how action must be taken to reduce obesity rates. Another great way is to support organizations that focus on increasing physical activity and lowering obesity such as Move, LIVESTRONG, NFL Play 60, Campaign to End Obesity, etc. Supporting such organizations is a great and easy way to help improve the health of the community. By writing to representatives and supporting health-focused organizations, not only will obesity rates in the United States decrease but costs will go down and the quality of life will improve. Whitcomb 5 Works Cited Harvard School of Public Health. https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/obesity- prevention-source/obesity-consequences/economic/. Accessed 16 April 2017. Study Puts a Dent in Health Halo: Honey Affects Your Body Much Like Sugar, High- Fructose Corn  Tufts University Health & Nutrition Letter, vol 10, no. 3, pp. 1-4. 1 December 2015. Expanded Academic ASAP, Bray, George A., Samara Joy Nielsen, and Barry M Popkin. of high-fructose corn syrup in beverages may play a role in the epidemic of American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, vol 79, no. 4, pp. 537-543. April 2004. AGRIS, http://ajcn.nutrition.org/content/79/4/537.full.pdf+html. Burgermaster, Marisa, Hiershenee Bhana, M. Dot Fullwood, Diego A. Luna Bazaldua, Elizabeth Tipton. the Role of Sugar-Sweetened Beverage Consumption in Obesity among New Yorkers Using Propensity Score Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, vol. 117, no. 5, May 2017, pp. 753-762. 5 March 2017. Journal of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, doi.org/10.1016/j.jand.2017.01.022. Carlson, Tyler. 10 Fattest Countries In The Gazette Review, 17 June 2016, http://gazettereview.com/2016/06/top-10-fattest-countries-in-world/. Accessed 16 April 2017. Lustig, Robert H. Without the American Society for Nutrition, vol 4, pp. 226-235. March 2013. Advances in Nutrition, doi:10.3945/an.112.002998 Whitcomb 6 Sturm, Roland. Effects Of Obesity, Smoking, And Drinking On Medical Problems And Health Affairs, vol 21, no. 2, pp. 245-253. March 2002. doi:10.1377/hlthaff.21.2.245