Chen 1 Qile Chen ENC1102. 908S17 Mariama M. Changamire 5/2/17 Immigration in America Over the last two centuries, the rate of immigration into the US has grown drastically. The main reason for the increased immigration is the provision of labor, racial tension, economic forces, religious discrimination, and security concerns in their home countries. The United States is a nation that hosts lots of people from different backgrounds and associations. The central dilemma in the country is how to contain the immigrants and still serve the national interests in a satisfactory manner. The percentage of the foreign-born citizens in the US has increased to more than 13% of the entire population (Martin & Elizabeth, 1-6). The immigration laws in America are welcoming, and they have allowed foreign nationals to move and settle in the nation. Increased immigration creates a diverse society and fosters complexity. However, some criminal activities have been on the rise due to the immigrants. A portion of them does not use the right channels to move to America, thus raising the problem of the illegal immigrants. The economic impact of the foreign-born US residents and the public perception of the immigrants are the main reasons why should we support the government to expand the number of legal immigrants. America has been regulating immigration since the time of its independence from Britain. Before independence, European were free to settle in America and got their citizenship after this place became the United Stated. After the nation become independent, The government enacted laws that required non-citizens to have lived in the nation for 14 years before naturalization. In the early19th century, some parts of the law were removed while others expired Chen 2 (Gold, 408-411). For a century, the US facilitated immigration thus welcoming foreigners into the nation. During that period, a huge amount of illegal immigrants who came to the United States. Illegal immigrants brought some social problems to America. The US has now set up strict rules that prevent immigrants from illegal way to get into the country. In the data collected in 2012, the population of the immigrants in the US comprised of more than 41 million. A breakdown of the immigration details showed that the population of the non-native naturalized US citizens was around 19 million people. The non-citizens were around 22 million. The population of the immigrants increased from 2000 to 2012 with a rise of 9.7 million inhabitants. The highest record of foreign nationals in the US was in the late 19 th century when they comprised of 14.8% of the total population. Previously, most of the immigrants into the US were from the European states. In the current time, the immigrants come from different nations such as Mexico, India, Philippines, Korea, Vietnam, Cuba and China among other countries (Tichenor, 20-32). In the 1950s and 1960s, most of the states in the US had less than 6% of the immigrants. A recent study shows that the population of the non-native nationals has increased in the western and southern parts of the US. This huge data shows that immigrants are already an important part of the American population. In the 1960s, the age of most of the immigrants is slightly higher than that of the native residents of the US. The immigrants in the US have diverse education backgrounds. Most of them have a postgraduate education. In year 2012, more than 11% of the foreigners attained a and doctorate while only 10.7% of the US population held such qualifications. However, about 89.9% of the native residents graduated with a diploma from high school while only 69.4% of the immigrants had the qualification. More than 50% of the immigrants are homeowners while 66% of the native population own homes (Tichenor). A small proportion of the immigrants are Chen 3 poor and do not use the social amenities like the Americans. Most children born of the foreigners are likely to enroll for tertiary education and are better off financially than their immigrant parents. This shows that most of the legal immigrants are elite, the United States needs these talents. Offer a legal status to those immigrants who enter America illegal will help with economy growth. The immigrants who have a legal status earn a high amount of income. They enjoy legal protection, have access to better jobs, they foster the creation of small businesses, and they have access to training on investments (Gold, 408-411). If undocumented immigrants attain a legal status, they will enjoy the same services as the legal citizens, which will increase the government spending on the facilities. The immigrants will also earn more. The total earnings of all American workers will be around 620 dollars in the next decade. Allowing the undocumented immigrants to attain legal status and get US citizenship will increase the economic growth of the nation. The naturalized workers in the US get higher wages, purchase more goods and services and pay higher taxes to the government thus leading to economic growth. Documentation of all illegal immigrants will channel the resources used in providing for their needs to other productive sectors. They immigrants will join the tax-payers group and contribute to the growth of the economy. However, research shows that the immigrants offer cheap labor to the native Americans (Borjas, 12-23). The immigrants come in to complement the existing skills of the US residents thus help them to increase productivity and develop the economy. We know that now a very large number of illegal immigrants in the United States. It is almost impossible for the government to repatriate them all. Obviously, the above method is a better choice. The majority of the US citizens support a reform that will allow the undocumented immigrants to gain citizenship or become legal residents. However, a certain percentage of the Chen 4 people argue that the illegal immigrants should be deported. A significant number of the US residents believe that passing the legislation that addresses unauthorized immigration is important. A poll conducted in 2014 showed that 70% of the voters who identified with Tea Party supported the implementation of a way for the undocumented immigrants to attain citizenship. Most Americans believe that the government has a responsibility of changing the immigration rules and fixing the broken system (Haines & Karen, 10-13). The US citizens perceive that it is the responsibility of the Congress to act on the immigration reforms. They also believe that the president has the power to act if the Congress does not make any changes. The Latin voters felt that it was important for the Congress to pass the reform in 2014. The supporters of the undocumented immigrants claimed that they were close friends or family members. The children of the immigrants have a strong link with the undocumented immigrants. Most of the Latinos in America believed that the law about the immigration reforms would aid the nation in achieving greater economic development. The immigration reform can serve as a gateway for the Republican and Latino voters. A poll conducted among the Latinos claimed that they were so much anxious concerning the immigration issue. They believed that the bill would create a way to grant citizenship to the undocumented immigrants. Immigration is a major issue in America. It is undeniable that immigrants are already an important part of the American population. It has its advantages and disadvantages, and the government should formulate laws that restrict the number of immigrants in order to maintain economic balance. A portion of the immigrants do not have documentation, and this cost the government a huge amount of money for the immigrant needs. Regulating their inflow is the only way to solve the dilemma and still portray respect and value for humanity. An individual Chen 5 can support immigration by different ways. Voting for those who are trying to help immigrants; Volunteer for immigration organization to form their event; Donate to the organizations that help immigrants to get a better social status; and being inform about why immigration is important and convince to others. A better future for America need your help. Chen 6 Works Cited Borjas, George J. Friends or strangers: the impact of immigrants on the US  (2010). Gold, Steven J. Immigration Benefits  Society 46.5 (2009): 408-411. Haines, David W., and Karen Elaine Rosenblum. Illegal immigration in America: A reference handbook. Greenwood Publishing Group, 2006. Martin, Philip, and Elizabeth Midgley. Immigration in America  Population Bulletin Update (2010): 1-6. Tichenor, Daniel J. Dividing lines: The politics of immigration control in America. Princeton University Press, 2009.