Tuico 1 Justin Tuico Mariama M. Changamire ENC 1102 19 April 2017 Save students from marijuana abuse Marijuana has been the prime topic of discussion for many years now, which is not surprising since most people believe that nothing good can come out of it. Recently, marijuana holds a firm standing when it comes to being the most commonly used illicit drug, only falling short behind alcohol (NIDA). In recent times, marijuana appears to be in very high demand, yet still so many people fail to realize the many harmful effects it harbors. The primary victims of these effects are the youths in America, most notably students. Most people are under the impression that marijuana is a harmless drug, hence their hesitation to acknowledge the real issue and take action. If this were not the case, the awareness of influence on students would be able to spread, avoiding the outcome of them going down the wrong path. Not only is the abuse of marijuana a detriment to a health and those they care about, it is also a major threat to their academic performance. There are also organizations that strive to educate students about marijuana and other drugs in hopes that they do not ultimately allow themselves to succumb to its influence. Organizations, such as the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, share one common goal, and that is to educate the public about the real issue concerning marijuana abuse. Marijuana abuse is something students can act upon by educating themselves, participating in anti-drug organizations, and spreading awareness. Marijuana is one of the most highly abused drug, whether it is used medically or recreationally. Some argue that marijuana has no addictive properties. However, according to the Tuico 2 U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, marijuana is classified as a Schedule I substance, which is the ranking reserved for drugs with the greatest potential for abuse and with no medical value (Nordrum). This level of abuse can lead to a dependence on the drug, in other words, there is the probability of addiction. The biggest contributors to the marijuana issue is the youth in America. Of those going to rehabilitation for weed addiction, 45 percent were under 21 years of age and 55 percent were under the age of 24 (Narconon). Students are no exception, especially college students, when it comes to the misuse of marijuana. A study by the Harvard School of Public Health College Alcohol Study found data from 119 US colleges and universities revealing a significant increase in the percentage of use of marijuana between 1993 and 2001 (Mohler-Kuo et al.). Students are at the highest risk when they indulge in the recreational use of marijuana since the possibility of their health and academic performance dropping is very high. The biggest issue is that most students are not fully aware of the harmful effects marijuana can have, especially on their academic performance, resulting in continued use of the substance. A study was done by the University of Maryland School of Public Health where 1,200 college freshmen were followed over the course of 10 years. What they found was that the use of marijuana contributed to students skipping classes, spending less time studying, earning lower grades, and dropping out of college (Schick). As a result of marijuana abuse, students fail to recognize the negative effects it has on their academic career. However, by further educating themselves, students can understand the potential risks they take should they decide to use marijuana, avoiding the trouble of dealing with its negative effects. Most students believe that since they themselves do not partake in the recreational use of marijuana that they will not be affected by it. However, this may not always be the case. According to a study done by the University of Monitor the Future, daily or near- Tuico 3 daily marijuana use was reported by 5.9 percent of college students in 2014, up from 3.5 percent in 2007. In other words, one in every 17 college students is smoking marijuana on a daily or near-daily basis (Wadley). Not only does this show a drastic increase in marijuana use by college students, it also illustrates the possibility that you or someone you care about may be abusing marijuana. In addition, college is a time when students learn to collaborate with other fellow students in order to succeed. No matter what major you are, teamwork will always be a necessity in your college career, which is why staying motivated and keeping a level mind is so important. The use of marijuana within a group, whether it is one person or more, can greatly hinder that ability to properly work together and succeed, ultimately lowering you and your overall grades. For people to avoid this situation or even having to watch someone they care about continue to abuse marijuana, people must educate themselves and understand that even though they may not take part in the use of marijuana, it can still affect them. Students who suffer from marijuana abuse do not have to go through the whole ordeal alone. In fact, people can help those in need by getting involved in organizations that specialize in rehabilitating people with their addiction to marijuana. Groups such as the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, Law Enforcement Against Prohibition, and Students for Sensible Drug Policy are a few organizations that people can volunteer with to help spread awareness and educate others about the negative effects marijuana has on youth. According to a study done by the National Survey on Drug Use and Health, the combined data from 2013 to 2014 indicate that across the United States about 1 in 14 adolescents aged 12 to 17 used marijuana in the past month (Hughes et al.). It is not too late for people to act now and make a difference to prevent not only this generation of youth, but the next from abusing marijuana. In addition to volunteering, the University of South Florida also offers support to Tuico 4 students who feel that marijuana may be negatively affecting their lives. Students who notice that their peers are having problems with marijuana abuse may recommend seeking guidance, especially for those who do not feel comfortable discussing their issues. If people continue to ignore the threat marijuana abuse imposes on students instead of addressing the issue, the possibility of more and more students failing, including loved ones, will increase. This will not only affect them, but also those who believe that their grades will remain uninfluenced by marijuana abusers. When it comes to marijuana perspectives, they are continuously changing. But one thing about marijuana itself has stayed, for the most part, the same, which is that the negative effects far outweigh the temporary state of euphoria you attain. Still, students remain very vulnerable to succumbing to the temptations of marijuana and the possibility of abusing the drug since many fail to acknowledge the false statement that it is a harmless, non-addictive drug. Because of this, students are susceptible to physical and mental health problems and academic failure. However, this issue can be resolved if students help other fellow students by volunteering with organizations against marijuana and spreading awareness as well as making the effort to further educate themselves about the subject. By doing this, students will be able to succeed in their academics and youth will thrive in a brighter future. Tuico 5 Works Cited Hughes, Arthur, et al. Estimates of Adolescent Marijuana Use and Perceptions of Risk or Harm From Marijuana Use: 2013 and Samsha. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Mohler-Kuo, Meivchun, et al. in Marijuana and Other Illicit Drug Use Among College Students: Results From 4 Harvard School of Public Health College Alcohol Study Surveys: Journal of American College Health. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Narconon. Dangers of Narconon. Web. 17 Apr. 2017 NIDA. Marijuana NIDA. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Nordrum, Amy. is Marijuana a Schedule I International Business Times. 07 Dec. 2015. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Schick, David. Study: Marijuana Use Increases Risk of Academic  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 07 June 2013. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Wadley, Jared. Marijuana Use Among U.S. College Students Highest Since Michigan News. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.